440.9517 Effect of indexing errors.
Sec. 9517. The failure of the filing office to index a record correctly does not affect the effectiveness of the
filed record.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9518 Information statement concerning inaccurate or wrongfully filed record.
Sec. 9518. (1) A person may file in the filing office an information statement with respect to a record
indexed there under the person's name if the person believes that the record is inaccurate or was wrongfully
filed.
(2) An information statement under subsection (1) must do all of the following:
(a) Identify the record to which it relates by both of the following:
(i) The file number assigned to the initial financing statement to which the record relates.
(ii) If the information statement relates to a record filed or recorded in a filing office described in section
9501(1)(a), the date that the initial financing statement was filed or recorded and the information specified in
section 9502(2).
(b) Indicate that it is an information statement.
(c) Provide the basis for the person's belief that the record is inaccurate and indicate the manner in which
the person believes the record should be amended to cure any inaccuracy or provide the basis for the person's
belief that the record was wrongfully filed.
(3) A person may file in the filing office an information statement with respect to a record filed there if the
person is a secured party of record with respect to the financing statement to which the record relates and
believes that the person that filed the record was not entitled to do so under section 9509(4).
(4) An information statement under subsection (3) must do all of the following:
(a) Identify the record to which it relates by both of the following:
(i) The file number assigned to the initial financing statement to which the record relates.
(ii) If the information statement relates to a record filed or recorded in a filing office described in section
9501(1)(a), the date and time that the initial financing statement was filed or recorded and the information
specified in section 9502(2).
(b) Indicate that it is an information statement.
(c) Provide the basis for the person's belief that the person that filed the record was not entitled to do so
under section 9509(4).
(5) The filing of an information statement does not affect the effectiveness of an initial financing statement
or other filed record.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001;⎯Am. 2012, Act 88, Eff. July 1, 2013.
SUBPART 2.

DUTIES AND OPERATION OF FILING OFFICE

440.9519 Numbering, maintaining, and indexing records; communicating information
provided in records.
Sec. 9519. (1) For each record filed in a filing office, the filing office shall do all of the following:
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 190 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
(a) Assign a unique number to the filed record.
(b) Create a record that bears the number assigned to the filed record and the date and time of filing.
(c) Maintain the filed record for public inspection.
(d) Index the filed record in accordance with subsections (3), (4), and (5).
(2) A file number assigned after January 1, 2002 must include a digit that is mathematically derived from
or related to the other digits of the file number, and aids the filing office in determining whether a number
communicated as the file number includes a single-digit or transpositional error.
(3) Except as otherwise provided in subsections (4) and (5), the filing office shall do both of the following:
(a) Index an initial financing statement according to the name of the debtor and index all filed records
relating to the initial financing statement in a manner that associates with one another an initial financing
statement and all filed records relating to the initial financing statement.
(b) Index a record that provides a name of a debtor that was not previously provided in the financing
statement to which the record relates also according to the name that was not previously provided.
(4) If a financing statement is filed as a fixture filing or covers as-extracted collateral or timber to be cut, it
must be filed for record and the filing office shall index it under both of the following:
(a) Under the names of the debtor and of each owner of record shown on the financing statement as if they
were the mortgagors under a mortgage of the real property described.
(b) To the extent that the law of this state provides for indexing of records of mortgages under the name of
the mortgagee, under the name of the secured party as if the secured party were the mortgagee thereunder, or,
if indexing is by description, as if the financing statement were a record of a mortgage of the real property
described.
(5) If a financing statement is filed as a fixture filing or covers as-extracted collateral or timber to be cut,
the filing office shall index an assignment filed under section 9514(1) or an amendment filed under section
9514(2) under both of the following:
(a) Under the name of the assignor as grantor.
(b) To the extent that the law of this state provides for indexing a record of the assignment of a mortgage
under the name of the assignee, under the name of the assignee.
(6) The filing office shall maintain a capability to do both of the following:
(a) To retrieve a record by the name of the debtor and by 1 of the following:
(i) If the filing office is described in section 9501(1)(a), by the file number assigned to the initial financing
statement to which the record relates and the date that the record was filed or recorded.
(ii) If the filing office is described in section 9501(1)(b), by the file number assigned to the initial financing
statement to which the record relates.
(b) To associate and retrieve with one another an initial financing statement and each filed record relating
to the initial financing statement.
(7) The filing office shall not remove a debtor's name from the index until 1 year after the effectiveness of
a financing statement naming the debtor lapses under section 9515 with respect to all secured parties of
record.
(8) The filing office shall perform the acts required by subsections (1) through (5) at the time and in the
manner prescribed by filing-office rule, but not later than 2 business days after the filing office receives the
record in question.
(9) Subsections (2) and (8) do not apply to a filing office described in section 9501(1)(a).

History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.

440.9520 Acceptance and refusal to accept record; wrongful filing; action to require
secretary of state to accept record; personal liability; filing by regulated financial
institution.
Sec. 9520. (1) A filing office shall refuse to accept a record for filing for a reason set forth in section
9516(2) or, if the filing office is the secretary of state, subsection (5) and may refuse to accept a record for
filing only for a reason set forth in section 9516(2) or, if the filing office is the secretary of state, subsection
(5).
(2) If a filing office refuses to accept a record for filing, it shall communicate to the person that presented
the record the fact of and reason for the refusal and the date and time the record would have been filed had the
filing office accepted it. The communication must be made at the time and in the manner prescribed by
filing-office rule but, in the case of a filing office described in section 9501(1)(b), in no event more than 2
business days after the filing office receives the record.
(3) A filed financing statement satisfying section 9502(1) and (2) is effective, even if the filing office is
required to refuse to accept it for filing under subsection (1). However, section 9338 applies to a filed
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 191 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
financing statement providing information described in section 9516(2)(e) that is incorrect at the time the
financing statement is filed.
(4) If a record communicated to a filing office provides information that relates to more than 1 debtor, this
part applies as to each debtor separately.
(5) Notwithstanding any other provision of this act, if a person presents a record to the secretary of state for
filing or recording, the secretary of state may refuse to accept the record for filing or recording if 1 or more of
the following circumstances exist:
(a) The record is not required or authorized to be filed or recorded with the secretary of state.
(b) The record is being filed or recorded for a purpose outside the scope of this article.
(c) The secretary of state has reasonable cause to believe the record is materially false or fraudulent.
(d) The record asserts a claim against a current or former employee or officer of a federal, state, county, or
other local governmental unit that relates to the performance of the officer's or employee's public duties, and
for which the filer does not hold a properly executed security agreement or judgment from a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(e) The record indicates that the debtor and the secured party are substantially the same or that an
individual debtor is a transmitting utility.
(6) If a correction statement filed with the secretary of state under section 9518 alleges that a previously
filed record was wrongfully filed, the secretary of state shall, without undue delay, determine whether the
contested record was wrongfully filed. To determine whether the record was wrongfully filed, the secretary of
state may require the person who filed the correction statement or the secured party to provide any additional
relevant information requested by the secretary of state, including an original or copy of a security agreement
that is related to the record. If the secretary of state finds that the record was wrongfully filed, the secretary of
state shall terminate the record and the record is void and ineffective. The secretary of state shall notify the
secured party named in the contested record of the termination.
(7) If the secretary of state refuses to accept a record for filing or recording pursuant to subsection (5), the
person who presented the record to the secretary of state may commence an action under section 9501a to
require the secretary of state to accept the record for filing or recording. A record ordered by the court to be
accepted is effective as a filed record from the initial filing date except as against a purchaser of the collateral
which gives value in reasonable reliance on the absence of the record from the files.
(8) A filing officer who, acting in a manner that does not subject the filing officer to personal liability
under the statutes of this state, improperly refuses to accept a record for filing or recording under subsection
(5) is not personally liable for the improper refusal or determination.
(9) Subsection (5) does not apply to a financing statement filed by a regulated financial institution or a
representative of a regulated financial institution. If a regulated financial institution that is attempting to file a
financing statement is organized under the law of a governmental unit other than this state, the secretary of
state may request the regulated financial institution or its representative to provide verification of regulation
or licensure in the jurisdiction under whose law the institution is organized. As used in this subsection,
"regulated financial institution" means that term as defined in section 9501a.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001;⎯Am. 2008, Act 383, Eff. Mar. 29, 2009.
440.9521 Form and format of written initial financing statement and amendment.
Sec. 9521. (1) Except for a reason set forth in section 9516(2) or 9520(5), a filing office that accepts
written records for filing shall not refuse to accept a written initial financing statement that conforms to the
form and format of the UCC financing statement (Form UCC1)(rev. 04/20/11) or the UCC financing
statement addendum (Form UCC1Ad)(rev. 04/20/11), promulgated by the American law institute and the
uniform law commission, or to the form and format of any other revision to or version of either of those forms
that are promulgated by the American law institute and the uniform law commission and adopted by the
secretary of state.
(2) Except for a reason set forth in section 9516(2) or 9520(5), a filing office that accepts written records
for filing shall not refuse to accept a written financing statement amendment that conforms to the form and
format of the UCC financing statement amendment (Form UCC3)(rev. 04/20/11) or the UCC financing
statement amendment addendum (Form UCC3Ad)(rev. 04/20/11), promulgated by the American law institute
and the uniform law commission, or to the form and format of any other revision to or version of either of
those forms that are promulgated by the American law institute and the uniform law commission and adopted
by the secretary of state.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001;⎯Am. 2008, Act 383, Eff. Mar. 29, 2009;⎯Am. 2012, Act 88, Eff. July 1, 2013.
440.9522 Maintenance and destruction of records.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 192 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
Sec. 9522. (1) The filing office shall maintain a record of the information provided in a filed financing
statement for at least 1 year after the effectiveness of the financing statement has lapsed under section 9515
with respect to all secured parties of record. The record must be retrievable by using the name of the debtor
and 1 of the following:
(a) If the record was filed or recorded in the filing office described in section 9501(1)(a), by using the file
number assigned to the initial financing statement to which the record relates and the date that the record was
filed or recorded.
(b) If record was filed in the filing office described in section 9501(1)(b), by using the file number
assigned to the initial financing statement to which the record relates.
(2) Except to the extent that a statute governing disposition of public records provides otherwise, the filing
office immediately may destroy any written record evidencing a financing statement. However, if the filing
office destroys a written record, it shall maintain another record of the financing statement that complies with
subsection (1).
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9523 Request for acknowledgment of filing; duties of filing office; communication;
medium; subscription; fee.
Sec. 9523. (1) If a person that files a written record requests an acknowledgment of the filing, the filing
office shall send to the person an image of the record showing the number assigned to the record pursuant to
section 9519(1)(a) and the date and time of the filing of the record. However, if the person furnishes a copy of
the record to the filing office, the filing office may instead do both of the following:
(a) Note upon the copy the number assigned to the record pursuant to section 9519(1)(a) and the date and
time of the filing of the record.
(b) Send the copy to the person.
(2) If a person files a record other than a written record, the filing office shall communicate to the person
an acknowledgment that provides all of the following:
(a) The information in the record.
(b) The number assigned to the record pursuant to section 9519(1)(a).
(c) The date and time of the filing of the record.
(3) The filing office shall communicate or otherwise make available in a record 1 or more of the following
information to any person that requests it:
(a) Whether there is on file on a date and time specified by the filing office, but not a date earlier than 3
business days before the filing office receives the request, any financing statement that meets all of the
following:
(i) Designates a particular debtor or, if the request so states, designates a particular debtor at the address
specified in the request.
(ii) Has not lapsed under section 9515 with respect to all secured parties of record.
(iii) If the request so states, has lapsed under section 9515 and a record of which is maintained by the filing
office under section 9522(1).
(b) The date and time of filing of each financing statement.
(c) The information provided in each financing statement.
(4) In complying with its duty under subsection (3), the filing office may communicate information in any
medium. However, if requested, the filing office shall communicate information by issuing its written
certificate or another record that can be admitted into evidence in the courts of this state without extrinsic
evidence of its authenticity.
(5) The filing office shall perform the acts required by subsections (1) through (4) at the time and in the
manner prescribed by filing-office rule, but, in the case of a filing office described in section 9501(1)(b), not
later than 2 business days after the filing office receives the request.
(6) Not later than January 1, 2018, the secretary of state shall sell or license to the public on a nonexclusive
basis, in bulk, by subscription, images of all records filed in it under this part each month, or bulk data from
the filed records, in a format established by the secretary of state and in 1 or more mediums available to the
secretary of state. The secretary of state shall charge a subscription fee of $500.00 per month to a person that
subscribes to receive images or data under this subsection.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001;⎯Am. 2017, Act 175, Imd. Eff. Nov. 21, 2017.
440.9524 Delay by filing office.
Sec. 9524. Delay by the filing office beyond a time limit prescribed by this part is excused if both of the
following apply:
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 193 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
(a) The delay is caused by interruption of communication or computer facilities, war, emergency
conditions, failure of equipment, or other circumstances beyond control of the filing office.
(b) The filing office exercises reasonable diligence under the circumstances.

History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.

440.9525 Fee for filing and indexing record; other fees.
Sec. 9525. (1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (3) or (4), the fee for filing and indexing a
record under this part is $15.00.
(2) A filing office shall charge a person a fee for responding to a request for a search of the records filed
with a filing office concerning a debtor, including issuance of a certificate describing each presently effective
record filed concerning the debtor if requested. The fee is $6.00, plus 1 or more of the following, if
applicable:
(a) If the person requests expediting of the regular search process, an additional fee of $25.00.
(b) If the person requests copies of the presently effective records disclosed by the search, an additional fee
of $2.00 per page.
(c) If the filing office is the secretary of state and the person requests that the secretary of state include an
impression of the official seal of the secretary of state on the certificate, an additional fee of $6.00.
(3) This section does not require a fee with respect to a record of a mortgage that is effective as a financing
statement filed as a fixture filing or as a financing statement covering as-extracted collateral or timber to be
cut under section 9502(3). However, the recording fees that otherwise would be applicable to the record of the
mortgage under section 2567 of the revised judicature act of 1961, 1961 PA 236, MCL 600.2567, apply.
(4) There is no fee for filing and indexing a correction statement filed with the office of the secretary of
state under section 9518, filed by an individual named as a debtor on a record indexed by the secretary of
state.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001;⎯Am. 2004, Act 212, Eff. Jan. 1, 2005;⎯Am. 2016, Act 229, Eff. Oct. 1, 2016.
440.9526 Filing-office rules.
Sec. 9526. (1) The secretary of state shall adopt and publish rules to implement this article. The
filing-office rules must be consistent with this article and adopted and published in accordance with the
administrative procedures act of 1969, 1969 PA 306, MCL 24.201 to 24.328.
(2) To keep the filing-office rules and practices of the filing office in harmony with the rules and practices
of filing offices in other jurisdictions that enact substantially this part, and to keep the technology used by the
filing office compatible with the technology used by filing offices in other jurisdictions that enact
substantially this part, the secretary of state, so far as is consistent with the purposes, policies, and provisions
of this article, in adopting, amending, and repealing filing-office rules, shall do all of the following:
(a) Consult with filing offices in other jurisdictions that enact substantially this part.
(b) Consult the most recent version of the model rules promulgated by the international association of
corporate administrators or any successor organization.
(c) Take into consideration the rules and practices of, and the technology used by, filing offices in other
jurisdictions that enact substantially this part.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
Administrative rules: R 440.101 et seq. of the Michigan Administrative Code.
440.9527 Repealed. 2008, Act 383, Eff. Mar. 29, 2009.
Compiler's note: The repealed section pertained to submission of report by secretary of state on the operation of the filing office.
PART 6

DEFAULT

SUBPART 1.

DEFAULT AND ENFORCEMENT OF SECURITY INTEREST

440.9601 Rights after default; judicial enforcement; consignor or buyer of accounts, chattel
paper, payment intangibles, or promissory notes.
Sec. 9601. (1) After default, a secured party has the rights provided in this part and, except as otherwise
provided in section 9602, those provided by agreement of the parties. A secured party may do 1 or more of
the following:
(a) May reduce a claim to judgment, foreclose, or otherwise enforce the claim, security interest, or
agricultural lien by any available judicial procedure.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 194 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
(b) If the collateral is documents, may proceed either as to the documents or as to the goods they cover.
(2) A secured party in possession of collateral or control of collateral under section 7106, 9104, 9105,
9106, or 9107 has the rights and duties provided in section 9207.
(3) The rights under subsections (1) and (2) are cumulative and may be exercised simultaneously.
(4) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (7) and section 9605, after default, a debtor and an obligor
have the rights provided in this part and by agreement of the parties.
(5) If a secured party has reduced its claim to judgment, the lien of any levy that may be made upon the
collateral by virtue of an execution based upon the judgment relates back to the earliest of the following:
(a) The date of perfection of the security interest or agricultural lien in the collateral.
(b) The date of filing a financing statement covering the collateral.
(c) Any date specified in a statute under which the agricultural lien was created.
(6) A sale pursuant to an execution is a foreclosure of the security interest or agricultural lien by judicial
procedure within the meaning of this section. A secured party may purchase at the sale and thereafter hold the
collateral free of any other requirements of this article.
(7) Except as otherwise provided in section 9607(3), this part imposes no duties upon a secured party that
is a consignor or is a buyer of accounts, chattel paper, payment intangibles, or promissory notes.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001;⎯Am. 2012, Act 87, Eff. July 1, 2013.
440.9602 Waiver and variance of rights and duties.
Sec. 9602. Except as otherwise provided in section 9624, to the extent that they give rights to a debtor or
obligor and impose duties on a secured party, the debtor or obligor may not waive or vary the rules stated in
the following listed sections:
(a) Section 9207(2)(d)(iii), which deals with use and operation of the collateral by the secured party.
(b) Section 9210, which deals with requests for an accounting and requests concerning a list of collateral
and statement of account.
(c) Section 9607(3), which deals with collection and enforcement of collateral.
(d) Sections 9608(1) and 9615(3) to the extent that they deal with application or payment of noncash
proceeds of collection, enforcement, or disposition.
(e) Sections 9608(1) and 9615(4) to the extent that they require accounting for or payment of surplus
proceeds of collateral.
(f) Section 9609 to the extent that it imposes upon a secured party that takes possession of collateral
without judicial process the duty to do so without breach of the peace.
(g) Sections 9610(2), 9611, 9613, and 9614, which deal with disposition of collateral.
(h) Section 9615(6), which deals with calculation of a deficiency or surplus when a disposition is made to
the secured party, a person related to the secured party, or a secondary obligor.
(i) Section 9616, which deals with explanation of the calculation of a surplus or deficiency.
(j) Sections 9620, 9621, and 9622, which deal with acceptance of collateral in satisfaction of obligation.
(k) Section 9623, which deals with redemption of collateral.
(l) Section 9624, which deals with permissible waivers.
(m) Sections 9625 and 9626, which deal with the secured party's liability for failure to comply with this
article.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9603 Agreement on standards concerning rights and duties.
Sec. 9603. (1) The parties may determine by agreement the standards measuring the fulfillment of the
rights of a debtor or obligor and the duties of a secured party under a rule stated in section 9602 if the
standards are not manifestly unreasonable.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to the duty under section 9609 to refrain from breaching the peace.

History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.

440.9604 Procedure if security agreement covers real property or fixtures.
Sec. 9604. (1) If a security agreement covers both personal and real property, a secured party may do either
of the following:
(a) Proceed under this part as to the personal property without prejudicing any rights with respect to the
real property.
(b) Proceed as to both the personal property and the real property in accordance with the rights with respect
to the real property, in which case the other provisions of this part do not apply.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), if a security agreement covers goods that are or become fixtures, a secured
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 195 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
party may do either of the following:
(a) Proceed under this part.
(b) Proceed in accordance with the rights with respect to real property, in which case the other provisions
of this part do not apply.
(3) Subject to the other provisions of this part, if a secured party holding a security interest in fixtures has
priority over all owners and encumbrancers of the real property, the secured party, after default, may remove
the collateral from the real property.
(4) A secured party that removes collateral shall promptly reimburse any encumbrancer or owner of the
real property, other than the debtor, for the cost of repair of any physical injury caused by the removal. The
secured party need not reimburse the encumbrancer or owner for any diminution in value of the real property
caused by the absence of the goods removed or by any necessity of replacing them. A person entitled to
reimbursement may refuse permission to remove until the secured party gives adequate assurance for the
performance of the obligation to reimburse.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9605 Unknown debtor or secondary obligor.
Sec. 9605. A secured party does not owe a duty based on its status as secured party to either of the
following:
(a) To a person that is a debtor or obligor, unless the secured party knows all of the following:
(i) That the person is a debtor or obligor.
(ii) The identity of the person.
(iii) How to communicate with the person.
(b) To a secured party or lienholder that has filed a financing statement against a person, unless the secured
party knows both of the following:
(i) That the person is a debtor.
(ii) The identity of the person.

History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.

440.9606 Time of default for agricultural lien.
Sec. 9606. For purposes of this part, a default occurs in connection with an agricultural lien at the time the
secured party becomes entitled to enforce the lien in accordance with the statute under which it was created.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9607 Collection and enforcement by secured party.
Sec. 9607. (1) If so agreed, and in any event after default, a secured party may do 1 or more of the
following:
(a) Notify an account debtor or other person obligated on collateral to make payment or otherwise render
performance to or for the benefit of the secured party.
(b) Take any proceeds to which the secured party is entitled under section 9315.
(c) Enforce the obligations of an account debtor or other person obligated on collateral and exercise the
rights of the debtor with respect to the obligation of the account debtor or other person obligated on collateral
to make payment or otherwise render performance to the debtor, and with respect to any property that secures
the obligations of the account debtor or other person obligated on the collateral.
(d) If it holds a security interest in a deposit account perfected by control under section 9104(1)(a), apply
the balance of the deposit account to the obligation secured by the deposit account.
(e) If it holds a security interest in a deposit account perfected by control under section 9104(1)(b) or (c),
instruct the bank to pay the balance of the deposit account to or for the benefit of the secured party.
(2) If necessary to enable a secured party to exercise under subsection (1)(c) the right of a debtor to enforce
a mortgage nonjudicially, the secured party may record both of the following in the office in which a record
of the mortgage is recorded:
(a) A copy of the security agreement that creates or provides for a security interest in the obligation
secured by the mortgage.
(b) The secured party's sworn affidavit in recordable form stating both of the following:
(i) That a default has occurred with respect to the obligation secured by the mortgage.
(ii) That the secured party is entitled to enforce the mortgage nonjudicially.
(3) A secured party shall proceed in a commercially reasonable manner if the secured party meets both of
the following:
(a) Undertakes to collect from or enforce an obligation of an account debtor or other person obligated on
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 196 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
collateral.
(b) Is entitled to charge back uncollected collateral or otherwise to full or limited recourse against the
debtor or a secondary obligor.
(4) A secured party may deduct from the collections made pursuant to subsection (3) reasonable expenses
of collection and enforcement, including reasonable attorney fees and legal expenses incurred by the secured
party.
(5) This section does not determine whether an account debtor, bank, or other person obligated on
collateral owes a duty to a secured party.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001;⎯Am. 2012, Act 88, Eff. July 1, 2013.
440.9608 Application of proceeds of collection or enforcement; liability for deficiency and
right to surplus.
Sec. 9608. (1) If a security interest or agricultural lien secures payment or performance of an obligation,
the following rules apply:
(a) A secured party shall apply or pay over for application the cash proceeds of collection or enforcement
under section 9607 in the following order to:
(i) The reasonable expenses of collection and enforcement and, to the extent provided for by agreement
and not prohibited by law, reasonable attorney fees and legal expenses incurred by the secured party.
(ii) The satisfaction of obligations secured by the security interest or agricultural lien under which the
collection or enforcement is made.
(iii) The satisfaction of obligations secured by any subordinate security interest in or other lien on the
collateral subject to the security interest or agricultural lien under which the collection or enforcement is made
if the secured party receives an authenticated demand for proceeds before distribution of the proceeds is
completed.
(b) If requested by a secured party, a holder of a subordinate security interest or other lien shall furnish
reasonable proof of the interest or lien within a reasonable time. Unless the holder complies, the secured party
need not comply with the holder's demand under subdivision (a)(iii).
(c) A secured party need not apply or pay over for application noncash proceeds of collection and
enforcement under section 9607 unless the failure to do so would be commercially unreasonable. A secured
party that applies or pays over for application noncash proceeds shall do so in a commercially reasonable
manner.
(d) A secured party shall account to and pay a debtor for any surplus, and the obligor is liable for any
deficiency.
(2) If the underlying transaction is a sale of accounts, chattel paper, payment intangibles, or promissory
notes, the debtor is not entitled to any surplus, and the obligor is not liable for any deficiency.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9609 Secured party's right to take possession after default.
Sec. 9609. (1) After default, a secured party may do 1 or more of the following:
(a) Take possession of the collateral.
(b) Without removal, render equipment unusable and dispose of collateral on a debtor's premises under
section 9610.
(2) A secured party may proceed under subsection (1) either pursuant to judicial process, or without
judicial process if it proceeds without breach of the peace.
(3) If so agreed, and in any event after default, a secured party may require the debtor to assemble the
collateral and make it available to the secured party at a place to be designated by the secured party that is
reasonably convenient to both parties.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9610 Disposition of collateral after default.
Sec. 9610. (1) After default, a secured party may sell, lease, license, or otherwise dispose of any or all of
the collateral in its present condition or following any commercially reasonable preparation or processing.
(2) Every aspect of a disposition of collateral, including the method, manner, time, place, and other terms,
must be commercially reasonable. If commercially reasonable, a secured party may dispose of collateral by
public or private proceedings, by 1 or more contracts, as a unit or in parcels, and at any time and place and on
any terms.
(3) A secured party may purchase collateral either at a public disposition, or at a private disposition only if
the collateral is of a kind that is customarily sold on a recognized market or the subject of widely distributed
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 197 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
standard price quotations.
(4) A contract for sale, lease, license, or other disposition includes the warranties relating to title,
possession, quiet enjoyment, and the like which by operation of law accompany a voluntary disposition of
property of the kind subject to the contract.
(5) A secured party may disclaim or modify warranties under subsection (4) either in a manner that would
be effective to disclaim or modify the warranties in a voluntary disposition of property of the kind subject to
the contract of disposition, or by communicating to the purchaser a record evidencing the contract for
disposition and including an express disclaimer or modification of the warranties.
(6) A record is sufficient to disclaim warranties under subsection (5) if it indicates “There is no warranty
relating to title, possession, quiet enjoyment, or the like in this disposition” or uses words of similar import.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9611 Notification before disposition of collateral.
Sec. 9611. (1) As used in this section, “notification date” means the earlier of the date on which 1 of the
following occurs:
(a) A secured party sends to the debtor and any secondary obligor an authenticated notification of
disposition.
(b) The debtor and any secondary obligor waive the right to notification.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (4), a secured party that disposes of collateral under section
9610 shall send to the persons specified in subsection (3) a reasonable authenticated notification of
disposition.
(3) To comply with subsection (2), the secured party shall send an authenticated notification of disposition
to all of the following:
(a) The debtor.
(b) Any secondary obligor.
(c) If the collateral is other than consumer goods, all of the following, as applicable:
(i) Any other person from which the secured party has received, before the notification date, an
authenticated notification of a claim of an interest in the collateral.
(ii) Any other secured party or lienholder that, 10 days before the notification date, held a security interest
in or other lien on the collateral perfected by the filing of a financing statement that identified the collateral,
was indexed under the debtor's name as of that date, and was filed in the office in which to file a financing
statement against the debtor covering the collateral as of that date.
(iii) Any other secured party that, 10 days before the notification date, held a security interest in the
collateral perfected by compliance with a statute, regulation, or treaty described in section 9311(1).
(4) Subsection (2) does not apply if the collateral is perishable or threatens to decline speedily in value or
is of a type customarily sold on a recognized market.
(5) A secured party complies with the requirement for notification prescribed by subsection (3)(c)(ii) if the
secured party does both of the following:
(a) Not later than 20 days or earlier than 30 days before the notification date, the secured party requests, in
a commercially reasonable manner, information concerning financing statements indexed under the debtor's
name in the office indicated in subsection (3)(c)(ii).
(b) Before the notification date, 1 of the following applies:
(i) The secured party did not receive a response to the request for information.
(ii) The secured party received a response to the request for information and sent an authenticated
notification of disposition to each secured party or other lienholder named in that response whose financing
statement covered the collateral.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9612 Timeliness of notification before disposition of collateral.
Sec. 9612. (1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (2), whether a notification is sent within a
reasonable time is a question of fact.
(2) In a transaction other than a consumer transaction, a notification of disposition sent after default and 10
days or more before the earliest time of disposition set forth in the notification is sent within a reasonable time
before the disposition.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9613 Contents and form of notification before disposition of collateral; generally.
Sec. 9613. Except in a consumer-goods transaction, the following rules apply:
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 198 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
(a) The contents of a notification of disposition are sufficient if the notification does all of the following:
(i) Describes the debtor and the secured party.
(ii) Describes the collateral that is the subject of the intended disposition.
(iii) States the method of intended disposition.
(iv) States that the debtor is entitled to an accounting of the unpaid indebtedness and states the charge, if
any, for an accounting.
(v) States the time and place of a public disposition or the time after which any other disposition is to be
made.
(b) Whether the contents of a notification that lacks any of the information specified in subdivision (a) are
nevertheless sufficient is a question of fact.
(c) The contents of a notification providing substantially the information specified in subdivision (a) are
sufficient, even if the notification includes information not specified by that paragraph or minor errors that are
not seriously misleading.
(d) A particular phrasing of the notification is not required.
(e) The following form of notification and the form appearing in section 9614(c), when completed, each
provides sufficient information:
 NOTIFICATION OF DISPOSITION OF COLLATERAL

To: 	 [Name of debtor, obligor, or other

 person to which the notification is

sent]

From: [Name, address, and telephone number

 of secured party]

Name of Debtor(s): [Include only if debtor(s) are not

 an addressee]

[For a public disposition:]

We will sell [or lease or license, as applicable] the [describe collateral] [to the highest qualified bidder] in
public as follows:
Day and Date: _______________

Time: _______________

Place: _______________

[For a private disposition:]

We will sell [or lease or license, as applicable] the [describe collateral] privately sometime after [day and
date].
You are entitled to an accounting of the unpaid indebtedness secured by the property that we intend to sell
[or lease or license, as applicable] [for a charge of $_____________]. You may request an accounting by
calling us at [telephone number].
 [End of Form]

History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9614 Contents and form of notification before disposition of collateral; consumer-goods
transaction.
Sec. 9614. In a consumer-goods transaction, the following rules apply:
(a) A notification of disposition must provide all of the following information:
(i) The information specified in section 9613(a).
(ii) A description of any liability for a deficiency of the person to which the notification is sent.
(iii) A telephone number from which the amount that must be paid to the secured party to redeem the
collateral under section 9623 is available.
(iv) A telephone number or mailing address from which additional information concerning the disposition
and the obligation secured is available.
(b) A particular phrasing of the notification is not required.
(c) The following form of notification, when completed, provides sufficient information:
[Name and address of secured party]

[Date]

 NOTICE OF OUR PLAN TO SELL PROPERTY

[Name and address of any obligor who is also a debtor]

Subject: [Identification of Transaction]

 We have your [describe collateral], because you broke 

promises in our agreement.

[For a public disposition:]

Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 199 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan	 Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
 We will sell [describe collateral] at public sale. A sale

could include a lease or license. The sale will be held as

follows:

 Date: __________________

 Time: __________________

 Place: __________________

 You may attend the sale and bring bidders if you want.

 [For a private disposition:]

 We will sell [describe collateral] at private sale sometime

after [date]. A sale could include a lease or license.

 The money that we get from the sale (after paying our 

costs) will reduce the amount you owe. If we get less money

than you owe, you [will or will not, as applicable] still owe

us the difference. If we get more money than you owe, you will

get the extra money, unless we must pay it to someone else.

 You can get the property back at any time before we sell

it by paying us the full amount you owe (not just the past due

payments), including our expenses. To learn the exact amount

you must pay, call us at [telephone number].

 If you want us to explain to you in writing how we have

figured the amount that you owe us, you may call us at

[telephone number] [or write us at [secured party's address]]

and request a written explanation. [We will charge you

$___________for the explanation if we sent you another written

explanation of the amount you owe us within the last 6 months.]

 If you need more information about the sale, call us at

[telephone number] [or write us at [secured party's address]].

 We are sending this notice to the following other people

who have an interest in [describe collateral] or who owe money

under your agreement: [Names of all other debtors and obligors,

if any].

 [End of Form]

(d) A notification in the form of subdivision (c) is sufficient, even if additional information appears at the
end of the form.
(e) A notification in the form of subdivision (c) is sufficient, even if it includes errors in information not
required by subdivision (a), unless the error is misleading with respect to rights arising under this article.
(f) If a notification under this section is not in the form of subdivision (c), law other than this article
determines the effect of including information not required by subdivision (a).
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9615 Application of proceeds of disposition; liability for deficiency and right to surplus.
Sec. 9615. (1) A secured party shall apply or pay over for application the cash proceeds of disposition
under section 9610 in the following order:
(a) To the reasonable expenses of retaking, holding, preparing for disposition, processing, and disposing,
and, to the extent provided for by agreement and not prohibited by law, reasonable attorney fees and legal
expenses incurred by the secured party.
(b) To the satisfaction of obligations secured by the security interest or agricultural lien under which the
disposition is made.
(c) To the satisfaction of obligations secured by any subordinate security interest in or other subordinate
lien on the collateral if both of the following, if applicable, are met:
(i) The secured party receives from the holder of the subordinate security interest or other lien an
authenticated demand for proceeds before distribution of the proceeds is completed.
(ii) In a case in which a consignor has an interest in the collateral, the subordinate security interest or other
lien is senior to the interest of the consignor.
(d) To a secured party that is a consignor of the collateral if the secured party receives from the consignor
an authenticated demand for proceeds before distribution of the proceeds is completed.
(2) If requested by a secured party, a holder of a subordinate security interest or other lien shall furnish
reasonable proof of the interest or lien within a reasonable time. Unless the holder does so, the secured party
need not comply with the holder's demand under subsection (1)(c).
(3) A secured party need not apply or pay over for application noncash proceeds of disposition under
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 200 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
section 9610 unless the failure to do so would be commercially unreasonable. A secured party that applies or
pays over for application noncash proceeds shall do so in a commercially reasonable manner.
(4) If the security interest under which a disposition is made secures payment or performance of an
obligation, after making the payments and applications required by subsection (1) and permitted by subsection
(3), both of the following apply:
(a) Unless subsection (1)(d) requires the secured party to apply or pay over cash proceeds to a consignor,
the secured party shall account to and pay a debtor for any surplus.
(b) The obligor is liable for any deficiency.
(5) If the underlying transaction is a sale of accounts, chattel paper, payment intangibles, or promissory
notes, the debtor is not entitled to any surplus, and the obligor is not liable for any deficiency.
(6) The surplus or deficiency following a disposition is calculated based on the amount of proceeds that
would have been realized in a disposition complying with this part to a transferee other than the secured party,
a person related to the secured party, or a secondary obligor if both of the following apply:
(a) The transferee in the disposition is the secured party, a person related to the secured party, or a
secondary obligor.
(b) The amount of proceeds of the disposition is significantly below the range of proceeds that a complying
disposition to a person other than the secured party, a person related to the secured party, or a secondary
obligor would have brought.
(7) All of the following apply to a secured party that receives cash proceeds of a disposition in good faith
and without knowledge that the receipt violates the rights of the holder of a security interest or other lien that
is not subordinate to the security interest or agricultural lien under which the disposition is made:
(a) The secured party takes the cash proceeds free of the security interest or other lien.
(b) The secured party is not obligated to apply the proceeds of the disposition to the satisfaction of
obligations secured by the security interest or other lien.
(c) The secured party is not obligated to account to or pay the holder of the security interest or other lien
for any surplus.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9616 Explanation of calculation of surplus or deficiency.
Sec. 9616. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Explanation” means a writing that does all of the following:
(i) States the amount of the surplus or deficiency.
(ii) Provides an explanation in accordance with subsection (3) of how the secured party calculated the
surplus or deficiency.
(iii) States, if applicable, that future debits, credits, charges, including additional credit service charges or
interest, rebates, and expenses may affect the amount of the surplus or deficiency.
(iv) Provides a telephone number or mailing address from which additional information concerning the
transaction is available.
(b) “Request” means a record that meets all of the following:
(i) Authenticated by a debtor or consumer obligor.
(ii) Requesting that the recipient provide an explanation.
(iii) Sent after disposition of the collateral under section 9610.
(2) In a consumer-goods transaction in which the debtor is entitled to a surplus or a consumer obligor is
liable for a deficiency under section 9615, the secured party shall do 1 or both of the following:
(a) Send an explanation to the debtor or consumer obligor, as applicable, after the disposition and in
accordance with both of the following:
(i) Sent before or when the secured party accounts to the debtor and pays any surplus or first makes written
demand on the consumer obligor after the disposition for payment of the deficiency.
(ii) Sent within 14 days after receipt of a request.
(b) In the case of a consumer obligor who is liable for a deficiency, within 14 days after receipt of a
request, send to the consumer obligor a record waiving the secured party's right to a deficiency.
(3) To comply with subsection (1)(a)(ii), a writing must provide the following information in the following
order:
(a) The aggregate amount of obligations secured by the security interest under which the disposition was
made, and, if the amount reflects a rebate of unearned interest or credit service charge, an indication of that
fact, calculated as of a specified date, that is 1 of the following:
(i) If the secured party takes or receives possession of the collateral after default, not more than 35 days
before the secured party takes or receives possession.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 201 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
(ii) If the secured party takes or receives possession of the collateral before default or does not take
possession of the collateral, not more than 35 days before the disposition.
(b) The amount of proceeds of the disposition.
(c) The aggregate amount of the obligations after deducting the amount of proceeds.
(d) The amount, in the aggregate or by type, and types of expenses, including expenses of retaking,
holding, preparing for disposition, processing, and disposing of the collateral, and attorney fees secured by the
collateral that are known to the secured party and relate to the current disposition.
(e) The amount, in the aggregate or by type, and types of credits, including rebates of interest or credit
service charges, to which the obligor is known to be entitled and that are not reflected in the amount in
subdivision (a).
(f) The amount of the surplus or deficiency.
(4) A particular phrasing of the explanation is not required. An explanation complying substantially with
the requirements of subsection (1) is sufficient, even if it includes minor errors that are not seriously
misleading.
(5) A debtor or consumer obligor is entitled without charge to 1 response to a request under this section
during any 6-month period in which the secured party did not send to the debtor or consumer obligor an
explanation pursuant to subsection (2)(a). The secured party may require payment of a charge not exceeding
$25.00 for each additional response.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001;⎯Am. 2001, Act 145, Eff. Jan. 1, 2002.
440.9617 Rights of transferee of collateral.
Sec. 9617. (1) A secured party's disposition of collateral after default does all of the following:
(a) Transfers to a transferee for value all of the debtor's rights in the collateral.
(b) Discharges the security interest under which the disposition is made.
(c) Discharges any subordinate security interest or other subordinate lien.
(2) A transferee that acts in good faith takes free of the rights and interests described in subsection (1),
even if the secured party fails to comply with this article or the requirements of any judicial proceeding.
(3) If a transferee does not take free of the rights and interests described in subsection (1), the transferee
takes the collateral subject to all of the following:
(a) The debtor's rights in the collateral.
(b) The security interest or agricultural lien under which the disposition is made.
(c) Any other security interest or other lien.

History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.

440.9618 Rights and duties of certain secondary obligors.
Sec. 9618. (1) A secondary obligor acquires the rights and becomes obligated to perform the duties of the
secured party after all of the following:
(a) The secondary obligor receives an assignment of a secured obligation from the secured party.
(b) The secondary obligor receives a transfer of collateral from the secured party and agrees to accept the
rights and assume the duties of the secured party.
(c) The secondary obligor is subrogated to the rights of a secured party with respect to collateral.
(2) An assignment, transfer, or subrogation described in subsection (1) results in both of the following:
(a) It is not a disposition of collateral under section 9610.
(b) It relieves the secured party of further duties under this article.

History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.

440.9619 Transfer of record or legal title.
Sec. 9619. (1) As used in this section, “transfer statement” means a record authenticated by a secured party
stating all of the following:
(a) That the debtor has defaulted in connection with an obligation secured by specified collateral.
(b) That the secured party has exercised its postdefault remedies with respect to the collateral.
(c) That, by reason of the exercise, a transferee has acquired the rights of the debtor in the collateral.
(d) The name and mailing address of the secured party, debtor, and transferee.
(2) A transfer statement entitles the transferee to the transfer of record of all rights of the debtor in the
collateral specified in the statement in any official filing, recording, registration, or certificate-of-title system
covering the collateral. If a transfer statement is presented with the applicable fee and request form to the
official or office responsible for maintaining the system, the official or office shall do all of the following:
(a) Accept the transfer statement.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 202 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
(b) Promptly amend its records to reflect the transfer.
(c) If applicable, issue a new appropriate certificate of title in the name of the transferee.
(3) A transfer of the record or legal title to collateral to a secured party under subsection (2) or otherwise is
not of itself a disposition of collateral under this article and does not of itself relieve the secured party of its
duties under this article.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9620 Acceptance of collateral in full or partial satisfaction of obligation; compulsory
disposition of collateral.
Sec. 9620. (1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (7), a secured party may accept collateral in full
or partial satisfaction of the obligation it secures only if all of the following are met:
(a) The debtor consents to the acceptance under subsection (3).
(b) The secured party does not receive, within the time set forth in subsection (4), a notification of
objection to the proposal authenticated by 1 of the following:
(i) A person to which the secured party was required to send a proposal under section 9621.
(ii) Any other person, other than the debtor, holding an interest in the collateral subordinate to the security
interest that is the subject of the proposal.
(c) If the collateral is consumer goods, the collateral is not in the possession of the debtor when the debtor
consents to the acceptance.
(d) Subsection (5) does not require the secured party to dispose of the collateral or the debtor waives the
requirement pursuant to section 9624.
(2) A purported or apparent acceptance of collateral under this section is ineffective unless both of the
following occur:
(a) The secured party consents to the acceptance in an authenticated record or sends a proposal to the
debtor.
(b) The conditions of subsection (1) are met.
(3) All of the following apply for purposes of this section:
(a) A debtor consents to an acceptance of collateral in partial satisfaction of the obligation it secures only if
the debtor agrees to the terms of the acceptance in a record authenticated after default.
(b) A debtor consents to an acceptance of collateral in full satisfaction of the obligation it secures only if
the debtor agrees to the terms of the acceptance in a record authenticated after default or the secured party
meets all of the following requirements:
(i) Sends to the debtor after default a proposal that is unconditional or subject only to a condition that
collateral not in the possession of the secured party be preserved or maintained.
(ii) In the proposal, proposes to accept collateral in full satisfaction of the obligation it secures.
(iii) Does not receive a notification of objection authenticated by the debtor within 20 days after the
proposal is sent.
(4) To be effective under subsection (1)(b), a notification of objection must be received by the secured
party within or before 1 of the following:
(a) In the case of a person to which the proposal was sent pursuant to section 9621, within 20 days after
notification was sent to that person.
(b) In other cases, 1 of the following:
(i) Within 20 days after the last notification was sent pursuant to section 9621.
(ii) If a notification was not sent, before the debtor consents to the acceptance under subsection (3).
(5) A secured party that has taken possession of collateral shall dispose of the collateral pursuant to section
9610 within the time specified in subsection (6) if 1 of the following is met:
(a) Sixty percent of the cash price has been paid in the case of a purchase-money security interest in
consumer goods.
(b) Sixty percent of the principal amount of the obligation secured has been paid in the case of a
non-purchase-money security interest in consumer goods.
(6) To comply with subsection (5), the secured party shall dispose of the collateral within 1 of the
following:
(a) Within 90 days after taking possession.
(b) Within any longer period to which the debtor and all secondary obligors have agreed in an agreement to
that effect entered into and authenticated after default.
(7) In a consumer transaction, a secured party may not accept collateral in partial satisfaction of the
obligation it secures.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 203 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
440.9621 Notification of proposal to accept collateral.
Sec. 9621. (1) A secured party that desires to accept collateral in full or partial satisfaction of the obligation
it secures shall send its proposal to all of the following:
(a) Any person from which the secured party has received, before the debtor consented to the acceptance,
an authenticated notification of a claim of an interest in the collateral.
(b) Any other secured party or lienholder that, 10 days before the debtor consented to the acceptance, held
a security interest in or other lien on the collateral perfected by the filing of a financing statement that met all
of the following:
(i) Identified the collateral.
(ii) Was indexed under the debtor's name as of that date.
(iii) Was filed in the office or offices in which to file a financing statement against the debtor covering the
collateral as of that date.
(c) Any other secured party that, 10 days before the debtor consented to the acceptance, held a security
interest in the collateral perfected by compliance with a statute, regulation, or treaty described in section
9311(1).
(2) A secured party that desires to accept collateral in partial satisfaction of the obligation it secures shall
send its proposal to any secondary obligor in addition to the persons described in subsection (1).
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9622 Effect of acceptance of collateral.
Sec. 9622. (1) A secured party's acceptance of collateral in full or partial satisfaction of the obligation it
secures does all of the following:
(a) Discharges the obligation to the extent consented to by the debtor.
(b) Transfers to the secured party all of a debtor's rights in the collateral.
(c) Discharges the security interest or agricultural lien that is the subject of the debtor's consent and any
subordinate security interest or other subordinate lien.
(d) Terminates any other subordinate interest.
(2) A subordinate interest is discharged or terminated under subsection (1), even if the secured party fails
to comply with this article.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9623 Right to redeem collateral.
Sec. 9623. (1) A debtor, any secondary obligor, or any other secured party or lienholder may redeem
collateral.
(2) To redeem collateral, a person shall tender both of the following:
(a) Fulfillment of all obligations secured by the collateral.
(b) The reasonable expenses and attorney fees described in section 9615(1)(a).
(3) A redemption may occur at any time before a secured party has done 1 of the following:
(a) Has collected collateral under section 9607.
(b) Has disposed of collateral or entered into a contract for its disposition under section 9610.
(c) Has accepted collateral in full or partial satisfaction of the obligation it secures under section 9622.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9624 Waiver.
Sec. 9624. (1) A debtor or secondary obligor may waive the right to notification of disposition of collateral
under section 9611 only by an agreement to that effect entered into and authenticated after default.
(2) A debtor may waive the right to require disposition of collateral under section 9620(5) only by an
agreement to that effect entered into and authenticated after default.
(3) Except in a consumer-goods transaction, a debtor or secondary obligor may waive the right to redeem
collateral under section 9623 only by an agreement to that effect entered into and authenticated after default.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
SUBPART 2.

NONCOMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE

440.9625 Remedies for secured party's failure to comply with article.
Sec. 9625. (1) If it is established that a secured party is not proceeding in accordance with this article, a
court may order or restrain collection, enforcement, or disposition of collateral on appropriate terms and
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 204 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
conditions.
(2) Subject to subsections (3), (4), and (6), a person is liable for damages in the amount of any loss caused
by a failure to comply with this article. Loss caused by a failure to comply may include loss resulting from the
debtor's inability to obtain, or increased costs of, alternative financing.
(3) Except as otherwise provided in section 9628, both of the following apply:
(a) A person that, at the time of the failure, was a debtor, was an obligor, or held a security interest in or
other lien on the collateral may recover damages under subsection (2) for its loss.
(b) If the collateral is consumer goods, a person that was a debtor or a secondary obligor at the time a
secured party failed to comply with this part may recover for that failure in any event an amount not less than
the credit service charge paid plus 10% of the principal amount of the obligation or the time-price differential
paid plus 10% of the cash price.
(4) A debtor whose deficiency is eliminated under section 9626 may recover damages for the loss of any
surplus. However, a debtor or secondary obligor whose deficiency is eliminated or reduced under section
9626 may not otherwise recover under subsection (2) for noncompliance with the provisions of this part
relating to collection, enforcement, disposition, or acceptance. Regardless of whether the debtor's or
secondary obligor's deficiency is eliminated or reduced under section 9626 or other applicable law, any
damages recovered by the debtor or secondary obligor under subsection (3) shall be reduced by the amount
that the sum of the secured obligation, expenses, and attorney's fees exceeds the proceeds of collection,
enforcement, disposition, or acceptance.
(5) In addition to any damages recoverable under subsection (2), the debtor, consumer obligor, or person
named as a debtor in a filed record, as applicable, may recover $500.00 in each case from a person that does 1
or more of the following:
(a) Fails to comply with section 9208.
(b) Fails to comply with section 9209.
(c) Files a record that the person is not entitled to file under section 9509(1).
(d) Fails to cause the secured party of record to file or send a termination statement as required by section
9513(1) or (3).
(e) Fails to comply with section 9616(2)(a) and whose failure is part of a pattern, or consistent with a
practice, of noncompliance.
(f) Fails to comply with section 9616(2)(b).
(6) A debtor or consumer obligor may recover damages under subsection (2) and, in addition, $500.00 in
each case from a person that, without reasonable cause, fails to comply with a request under section 9210. A
recipient of a request under section 9210 that never claimed an interest in the collateral or obligations that are
the subject of a request under that section has a reasonable excuse for failure to comply with the request
within the meaning of this subsection.
(7) If a secured party fails to comply with a request regarding a list of collateral or a statement of account
under section 9210, the secured party may claim a security interest only as shown in the list or statement
included in the request as against a person that is reasonably misled by the failure.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001;⎯Am. 2014, Act 104, Imd. Eff. Apr. 10, 2014.
440.9626 Action in which deficiency or surplus is in issue.
Sec. 9626. In an action arising from a transaction in which the amount of a deficiency or surplus is in issue,
the following rules apply:
(a) A secured party need not prove compliance with the provisions of this part relating to collection,
enforcement, disposition, or acceptance unless the debtor or a secondary obligor places the secured party's
compliance in issue.
(b) If the secured party's compliance is placed in issue, the secured party has the burden of establishing that
the collection, enforcement, disposition, or acceptance was conducted in accordance with this part.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in section 9628, if a secured party fails to prove that the collection,
enforcement, disposition, or acceptance was conducted in accordance with the provisions of this part relating
to collection, enforcement, disposition, or acceptance, the liability of a debtor or a secondary obligor for a
deficiency is limited to an amount by which the sum of the secured obligation, expenses, and attorney fees
exceeds the greater of 1 of the following:
(i) The proceeds of the collection, enforcement, disposition, or acceptance.
(ii) The amount of proceeds that would have been realized had the noncomplying secured party proceeded
in accordance with the provisions of this part relating to collection, enforcement, disposition, or acceptance.
(d) For purposes of subdivision (c)(ii), the amount of proceeds that would have been realized is equal to
the sum of the secured obligation, expenses, and attorney fees unless the secured party proves that the amount
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 205 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
is less than that sum.
(e) If a deficiency or surplus is calculated under section 9615(6), the debtor or obligor has the burden of
establishing that the amount of proceeds of the disposition is significantly below the range of prices that a
complying disposition to a person other than the secured party, a person related to the secured party, or a
secondary obligor would have brought.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001;⎯Am. 2014, Act 104, Imd. Eff. Apr. 10, 2014.
440.9627 Determination of whether conduct was commercially reasonable.
Sec. 9627. (1) The fact that a greater amount could have been obtained by a collection, enforcement,
disposition, or acceptance at a different time or in a different method from that selected by the secured party is
not of itself sufficient to preclude the secured party from establishing that the collection, enforcement,
disposition, or acceptance was made in a commercially reasonable manner.
(2) A disposition of collateral is made in a commercially reasonable manner if the disposition is made in
the usual manner on any recognized market, at the price current in any recognized market at the time of the
disposition, or otherwise in conformity with reasonable commercial practices among dealers in the type of
property that was the subject of the disposition.
(3) A collection, enforcement, disposition, or acceptance is commercially reasonable if it has been
approved in a judicial proceeding, by a bona fide creditors' committee, by a representative of creditors, or by
an assignee for the benefit of creditors.
(4) Approval under subsection (3) need not be obtained, and lack of approval does not mean that the
collection, enforcement, disposition, or acceptance is not commercially reasonable.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9628 Nonliability and limitation on liability of secured party; liability of secondary
obligor.
Sec. 9628. (1) Unless a secured party knows that a person is a debtor or obligor, knows the identity of the
person, and knows how to communicate with the person, both of the following apply:
(a) The secured party is not liable to the person, or to a secured party or lienholder that has filed a
financing statement against the person, for failure to comply with this article.
(b) The secured party's failure to comply with this article does not affect the liability of the person for a
deficiency.
(2) A secured party is not liable because of its status as secured party to either of the following:
(a) To a person that is a debtor or obligor, unless the secured party knows all of the following:
(i) That the person is a debtor or obligor.
(ii) The identity of the person.
(iii) How to communicate with the person.
(b) To a secured party or lienholder that has filed a financing statement against a person, unless the secured
party knows both of the following:
(i) That the person is a debtor.
(ii) The identity of the person.
(3) A secured party is not liable to any person, and a person's liability for a deficiency is not affected,
because of any act or omission arising out of the secured party's reasonable belief that a transaction is not a
consumer-goods transaction or a consumer transaction or that goods are not consumer goods, if the secured
party's belief is based on its reasonable reliance on 1 or more of the following:
(a) A debtor's representation concerning the purpose for which collateral was to be used, acquired, or held.
(b) An obligor's representation concerning the purpose for which a secured obligation was incurred.
(4) A secured party is not liable to any person under section 9625(3)(b) for its failure to comply with
section 9616.
(5) A secured party is not liable under section 9625(3)(b) more than once with respect to any 1 secured
obligation.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
PART 7

TRANSITION

440.9701 “This amendatory act” defined.
Sec. 9701. As used in this part, “this amendatory act” means the amendatory act that added this part.

History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.

Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 206 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
440.9702 Savings clause.
Sec. 9702. (1) Except as otherwise provided in this part, this amendatory act applies to a transaction or lien
within its scope, even if the transaction or lien was entered into or created before this amendatory act takes
effect.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (3) and sections 9703 through 9709, both of the following
apply:
(a) Transactions and liens that were not governed by this article before this amendatory act takes effect,
were validly entered into or created before this amendatory act takes effect, and would be subject to this
amendatory act if they had been entered into or created after this amendatory act takes effect, and the rights,
duties, and interests flowing from those transactions and liens remain valid after this amendatory act takes
effect.
(b) The transactions and liens may be terminated, completed, consummated, and enforced as required or
permitted by this amendatory act or by the law that otherwise would apply if this amendatory act had not
taken effect.
(3) This amendatory act does not affect an action, case, or proceeding commenced before this amendatory
act takes effect.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9703 Security interest perfected before effective date.
Sec. 9703. (1) A security interest that is enforceable immediately before this amendatory act takes effect
and would have priority over the rights of a person that becomes a lien creditor at that time is a perfected
security interest under this amendatory act if, when this amendatory act takes effect, the applicable
requirements for enforceability and perfection under this amendatory act are satisfied without further action.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in section 9705, if, immediately before this amendatory act takes effect, a
security interest is enforceable and would have priority over the rights of a person that becomes a lien creditor
at that time, but the applicable requirements for enforceability or perfection under this amendatory act are not
satisfied when this amendatory act takes effect, all of the following apply to the security interest:
(a) The security interest is a perfected security interest for 1 year after this amendatory act takes effect.
(b) The security interest remains enforceable thereafter only if the security interest becomes enforceable
under section 9203 before the year expires.
(c) The security interest remains perfected thereafter only if the applicable requirements for perfection
under this amendatory act are satisfied before the year expires.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9704 Security interest unperfected before effective date.
Sec. 9704. All of the following apply to a security interest that is enforceable immediately before this
amendatory act takes effect but which would be subordinate to the rights of a person that becomes a lien
creditor at that time:
(a) The security interest remains an enforceable security interest for 1 year after this amendatory act takes
effect.
(b) The security interest remains enforceable thereafter if the security interest becomes enforceable under
section 9203 when this amendatory act takes effect or within 1 year thereafter.
(c) The security interest becomes perfected under 1 of the following:
(i) Without further action, when this amendatory act takes effect if the applicable requirements for
perfection under this amendatory act are satisfied before or at that time.
(ii) When the applicable requirements for perfection are satisfied if the requirements are satisfied after that
time.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9705 Effectiveness of action taken before effective date.
Sec. 9705. (1) If action, other than the filing of a financing statement, is taken before this amendatory act
takes effect and the action would have resulted in priority of a security interest over the rights of a person that
becomes a lien creditor had the security interest become enforceable before this amendatory act takes effect,
the action is effective to perfect a security interest that attaches under this amendatory act within 1 year after
this amendatory act takes effect. An attached security interest becomes unperfected 1 year after this
amendatory act takes effect unless the security interest becomes a perfected security interest under this
amendatory act before the expiration of that period.
(2) The filing of a financing statement before this amendatory act takes effect is effective to perfect a
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 207 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
security interest to the extent the filing would satisfy the applicable requirements for perfection under this
amendatory act.
(3) This amendatory act does not render ineffective an effective financing statement that, before this
amendatory act takes effect, is filed and satisfies the applicable requirements for perfection under the law of
the jurisdiction governing perfection as provided in section 9103 before this amendatory act takes effect.
However, except as otherwise provided in subsections (4) and (5) and section 9706, the financing statement
ceases to be effective at the earlier of the following:
(a) The time the financing statement would have ceased to be effective under the law of the jurisdiction in
which it is filed.
(b) June 30, 2006.
(4) The filing of a continuation statement after this amendatory act takes effect does not continue the
effectiveness of the financing statement filed before this amendatory act takes effect. However, upon the
timely filing of a continuation statement after this amendatory act takes effect and in accordance with the law
of the jurisdiction governing perfection as provided in part 3, the effectiveness of a financing statement filed
in the same office in that jurisdiction before this amendatory act takes effect continues for the period provided
by the law of that jurisdiction.
(5) Subsection (3)(b) applies to a financing statement that, before this amendatory act takes effect, is filed
against a transmitting utility and satisfies the applicable requirements for perfection under the law of the
jurisdiction governing perfection as provided in section 9103 before this amendatory act takes effect only to
the extent that part 3 provides that the law of a jurisdiction other than the jurisdiction in which the financing
statement is filed governs perfection of a security interest in collateral covered by the financing statement.
(6) A financing statement that includes a financing statement filed before this amendatory act takes effect
and a continuation statement filed after this amendatory act takes effect is effective only to the extent that it
satisfies the requirements of part 5 for an initial financing statement.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9706 When initial financing statement suffices to continue effectiveness of financing
statement.
Sec. 9706. (1) The filing of an initial financing statement in the office specified in section 9501 continues
the effectiveness of a financing statement filed before this amendatory act takes effect if all of the following
apply:
(a) The filing of an initial financing statement in that office would be effective to perfect a security interest
under this amendatory act.
(b) The pre-effective-date financing statement was filed in an office in another state or another office in
this state.
(c) The initial financing statement satisfies subsection (3).
(2) The filing of an initial financing statement under subsection (1) continues the effectiveness of the
pre-effective-date financing statement if both of the following apply:
(a) If the initial financing statement is filed before this amendatory act takes effect, for the period provided
in section 9403 before this amendatory act takes effect with respect to a financing statement.
(b) If the initial financing statement is filed after this amendatory act takes effect, for the period provided
in section 9515 with respect to an initial financing statement.
(3) To be effective for purposes of subsection (1), an initial financing statement must do all of the
following:
(a) Satisfy the requirements of part 5 for an initial financing statement.
(b) Identify the pre-effective-date financing statement by indicating the office in which the financing
statement was filed and providing the dates of filing and file numbers, if any, of the financing statement and
of the most recent continuation statement filed with respect to the financing statement.
(c) Indicate that the pre-effective-date financing statement remains effective.

History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.

440.9707 Pre-effective-date financing statement.
Sec. 9707. (1) As used in this section, “pre-effective-date financing statement” means a financing
statement filed before this amendatory act takes effect.
(2) After this amendatory act takes effect, a person may add or delete collateral covered by, continue or
terminate the effectiveness of, or otherwise amend the information provided in, a pre-effective-date financing
statement only in accordance with the law of the jurisdiction governing perfection as provided in part 3.
However, the effectiveness of a pre-effective-date financing statement also may be terminated in accordance
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 208 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
with the law of the jurisdiction in which the financing statement is filed.
(3) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (4), if the law of this state governs perfection of a security
interest, the information in a pre-effective-date financing statement may be amended after this amendatory act
takes effect only if 1 of the following is met:
(a) The pre-effective-date financing statement and an amendment are filed in the office specified in section
9501.
(b) An amendment is filed in the office specified in section 9501 concurrently with, or after the filing in
that office of, an initial financing statement that satisfies section 9706(3).
(c) An initial financing statement that provides the information as amended and satisfies section 9706(3) is
filed in the office specified in section 9501.
(4) If the law of this state governs perfection of a security interest, the effectiveness of a pre-effective-date
financing statement may be continued only under section 9705(4) and (6) or 9706.
(5) Whether or not the law of this state governs perfection of a security interest, the effectiveness of a
pre-effective-date financing statement filed in this state may be terminated after this amendatory act takes
effect by filing a termination statement in the office in which the pre-effective-date financing statement is
filed, unless an initial financing statement that satisfies section 9706(3) has been filed in the office specified
by the law of the jurisdiction governing perfection as provided in part 3 as the office in which to file a
financing statement.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9708 Persons entitled to file initial financing statement or continuation statement.
Sec. 9708. A person may file an initial financing statement or a continuation statement under this part if
both of the following apply:
(a) The secured party of record authorizes the filing.
(b) The filing is necessary under this part to do 1 of the following:
(i) To continue the effectiveness of a financing statement filed before this amendatory act takes effect.
(ii) To perfect or continue the perfection of a security interest.

History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.

440.9709 Priority.
Sec. 9709. (1) This amendatory act determines the priority of conflicting claims to collateral. However, if
the relative priorities of the claims were established before this amendatory act takes effect, this article as in
effect before this amendatory act takes effect determines priority.
(2) For purposes of section 9322(1), the priority of a security interest that becomes enforceable under
section 9203 of this amendatory act dates from the time this amendatory act takes effect if the security interest
is perfected under this amendatory act by the filing of a financing statement before this amendatory act takes
effect which would not have been effective to perfect the security interest under this article as in effect before
this amendatory act takes effect. This subsection does not apply to conflicting security interests each of which
is perfected by the filing of a financing statement described in this subsection.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
PART 8

TRANSITION PROVISIONS FOR 2010 AMENDMENTS

440.9801 Definitions.
Sec. 9801. As used in this part:
(a) "Pre-effective-date financing statement" means a financing statement filed before the effective date of
this amendatory act.
(b) "This amendatory act" means the amendatory act that added this part.
(c) "This amended article" means this article as amended by this amendatory act.

History: Add. 2012, Act 88, Eff. July 1, 2013.

440.9802 Applicability; scope.
Sec. 9802. (1) Except as otherwise provided in this part, this amendatory act applies to a transaction or lien
within its scope, even if the transaction or lien was entered into or created before the effective date of this
amendatory act.
(2) This amendatory act does not affect an action, case, or proceeding commenced before the effective date
of this amendatory act.
History: Add. 2012, Act 88, Eff. July 1, 2013.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 209 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
440.9803 Perfected security interest before effective date of amendatory act.
Sec. 9803. (1) A security interest that is a perfected security interest immediately before the effective date
of this amendatory act is a perfected security interest under this amended article if, on the effective date of
this amendatory act, the applicable requirements for attachment and perfection under this amended article are
satisfied without further action.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in section 9805, if, immediately before the effective date of this
amendatory act, a security interest is a perfected security interest, but the applicable requirements for
perfection under this amended article are not satisfied on the effective date of this amendatory act, the security
interest remains perfected thereafter only if the applicable requirements for perfection under this amended
article are satisfied within 1 year after the effective date of this amendatory act.
History: Add. 2012, Act 88, Eff. July 1, 2013.
440.9804 Unperfected security interest before effective date of amendatory act.
Sec. 9804. A security interest that is an unperfected security interest immediately before the effective date
of this amendatory act becomes a perfected security interest when either of the following occurs:
(a) Without further action, on the effective date of this amendatory act if the applicable requirements for
perfection under this amended article are satisfied before or at that time.
(b) When the applicable requirements for perfection are satisfied if the requirements are satisfied after the
effective date of this amendatory act.
History: Add. 2012, Act 88, Eff. July 1, 2013.
440.9805 Filing of financing statement or continuation statement before effective date of
amendatory act.
Sec. 9805. (1) The filing of a financing statement before the effective date of this amendatory act is
effective to perfect a security interest to the extent that the filing would satisfy the applicable requirements for
perfection under this amended article.
(2) This amendatory act does not render ineffective an effective financing statement that is filed before the
effective date of this amendatory act and satisfies the applicable requirements for perfection under the law of
the jurisdiction governing perfection as provided in this article as it existed before the effective date of this
amendatory act. However, except as otherwise provided in subsections (3) and (4) and section 9806, the
financing statement ceases to be effective at 1 of the following times, as applicable:
(a) If the financing statement is filed in this state, at the time the financing statement would have ceased to
be effective had this amendatory act not taken effect.
(b) If the financing statement is filed in another jurisdiction, at the earlier of the following:
(i) The time the financing statement would have ceased to be effective under the law of that jurisdiction.
(ii) June 30, 2018.
(3) The filing of a continuation statement after the effective date of this amendatory act does not continue
the effectiveness of a financing statement filed before the effective date of this amendatory act. However,
upon the timely filing of a continuation statement after the effective date of this amendatory act and in
accordance with the law of the jurisdiction governing perfection as provided in this amended article, the
effectiveness of a financing statement filed in the same office in that jurisdiction before the effective date of
this amendatory act continues for the period provided by the law of that jurisdiction.
(4) Subsection (2)(b)(ii) applies to a financing statement that is filed before the effective date of this
amendatory act against a transmitting utility and satisfies the applicable requirements for perfection under the
law of the jurisdiction governing perfection as provided in this article before the effective date of this
amendatory act, only to the extent that this amended article provides that the law of a jurisdiction other than
the jurisdiction in which the financing statement is filed governs perfection of a security interest in collateral
covered by the financing statement.
(5) A financing statement that includes a financing statement filed before the effective date of this
amendatory act and a continuation statement filed after the effective date of this amendatory act is effective
only to the extent that it satisfies the requirements of part 5 as amended by this amendatory act for an initial
financing statement. A financing statement that indicates that the debtor is a decedent's estate indicates that
the collateral is being administered by a personal representative within the meaning of section 9503(1)(b) as
amended by this amendatory act. A financing statement that indicates that the debtor is a trust or is a trustee
acting with respect to property held in trust indicates that the collateral is held in a trust within the meaning of
section 9503(1)(c) as amended by this amendatory act.
History: Add. 2012, Act 88, Eff. July 1, 2013.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 210 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
440.9806 Continuation of effectiveness of pre-effective-date financing statement; filing of
initial financing statement.
Sec. 9806. (1) The filing of an initial financing statement in the office specified in section 9501 continues
the effectiveness of a pre-effective-date financing statement if all of the following are met:
(a) The filing of an initial financing statement in that office would be effective to perfect a security interest
under this amended article.
(b) The pre-effective-date financing statement was filed in an office in another state.
(c) The initial financing statement satisfies subsection (3).
(2) The filing of an initial financing statement under subsection (1) continues the effectiveness of the
pre-effective-date financing statement for 1 of the following periods:
(a) If the initial financing statement is filed before the effective date of this amendatory act, for the period
provided in section 9515 as it existed before the effective date of this amendatory act with respect to an initial
financing statement.
(b) If the initial financing statement is filed after the effective date of this amendatory act, for the period
provided in section 9515 as amended by this amendatory act with respect to an initial financing statement.
(3) To be effective for purposes of subsection (1), an initial financing statement must do all of the
following:
(a) Satisfy the requirements of part 5 as amended by this amendatory act for an initial financing statement.
(b) Identify the pre-effective-date financing statement by indicating the office in which the financing
statement was filed and providing the dates of filing and file numbers, if any, of the financing statement and
of the most recent continuation statement filed with respect to the financing statement.
(c) Indicate that the pre-effective-date financing statement remains effective.

History: Add. 2012, Act 88, Eff. July 1, 2013.

440.9807 Amending information in pre-effective-date financing statement; filing termination
statement.
Sec. 9807. (1) After the effective date of this amendatory act, a person may add or delete collateral covered
by, continue or terminate the effectiveness of, or otherwise amend the information provided in, a
pre-effective-date financing statement only in accordance with the law of the jurisdiction governing perfection
as provided in this amended article. However, the effectiveness of a pre-effective-date financing statement
also may be terminated in accordance with the law of the jurisdiction in which the financing statement is filed.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (3), if the law of this state governs perfection of a security
interest, the information in a pre-effective-date financing statement may be amended after the effective-date
of this amendatory act only if 1 of the following is met:
(a) The pre-effective-date financing statement and an amendment are filed in the office specified in section
9501.
(b) An amendment is filed in the office specified in section 9501 concurrently with, or after the filing in
that office of, an initial financing statement that satisfies section 9806(3).
(c) An initial financing statement that provides the information as amended and satisfies section 9806(3) is
filed in the office specified in section 9501.
(3) If the law of this state governs perfection of a security interest, the effectiveness of a pre-effective-date
financing statement may be continued only under section 9805(3) and (5) or 9806.
(4) Whether or not the law of this state governs perfection of a security interest, the effectiveness of a
pre-effective-date financing statement filed in this state may be terminated after the effective date of this
amendatory act by filing a termination statement in the office in which the pre-effective-date financing
statement is filed, unless an initial financing statement that satisfies section 9806(3) has been filed in the
office specified by the law of the jurisdiction governing perfection as provided in this amended article as the
office in which to file a financing statement.
History: Add. 2012, Act 88, Eff. July 1, 2013.
440.9808 Filing initial financing statement or continuation statement; conditions.
Sec. 9808. A person may file an initial financing statement or a continuation statement under this part if all
of the following are met:
(a) The secured party of record authorizes the filing.
(b) The filing is necessary under this part to do any of the following:
(i) To continue the effectiveness of a financing statement filed before the effective date of this amendatory
act.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 211 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
(ii) To perfect or continue the perfection of a security interest.

History: Add. 2012, Act 88, Eff. July 1, 2013.

440.9809 Priority of conflicting claims to collateral; establishment before effective date of
amendatory act.
Sec. 9809. This amendatory act determines the priority of conflicting claims to collateral. However, if the
relative priorities of the claims were established before the effective date of this amendatory act, this article as
it existed before the effective date of this amendatory act determines priority.
History: Add. 2012, Act 88, Eff. July 1, 2013.
EFFECTIVE DATE AND REPEALER
440.9991 Effective date of act; application to future transactions.
Sec. 9991. This act shall become effective on January 1, 1964. It applies to transactions entered into and
events occurring after that date.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964.
440.9992 Repeal.
Sec. 9992. The following acts and parts of acts, as amended, are hereby repealed:
(1) Revised Statutes of 1846.
Chapter Section Numbers Compiled Law Sections (1948)
81 7 to 16 566.137 to 566.146
(2) Public Acts.
Year Public Act Section Compiled Law
of Act Number Numbers Sections (1948)
1877 57 566.191
1881 117 566.201 and 566.202
1893 81 469.291 to 469.293
1895 220 2 to 6 444.2 to 444.6
1895 220 8 444.8
1895 220 11 444.11
1895 220 12 444.12
1895 220 14 to 22 444.14 to 444.22
1899 84 442.301 to 442.303
1901 236 468.321
1905 223 442.1 to 442.3
1905 265 439.1 to 439.191
1907 95 487.661
1909 303 1 to 49 443.1 to 443.49
1909 303 56 to 58 443.56 to 443.58
1911 165 1 to 43 482.1 to 482.43
1911 165 51 to 56 482.51 to 482.56
1913 100 440.1 to 440.78
1913 106 441.1 to 441.25
1915 64 442.101
1919 386 487.641
1919 378 487.671
1925 348 487.681 and 487.682
1925 390 487.621
1929 200 442.51 to 442.53
1931 327 26 450.26
1931 240 487.601 to 487.617
1933 154 442.151
1937 341 48 487.48
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 212 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov




1937 341 154 487.154

1937 341 213 487.213
1939 290 566.401 to 566.412
1939 305 3 to 14 566.303 to 566.314
1943 187 566.501
1947 180 570.501 to 570.512
1950 (Ex. Sess.) 27 23 to 27 492.123 to 492.127
1952 19 555.401 to 555.419
1961 236 2150 600.2150
1961 236 5401 to 5445 600.5401 to 600.5445
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964.
440.9993 Saving clause.
Sec. 9993. Transactions validly entered into before the effective date specified in section 9991 and the
rights, duties and interests flowing from them remain valid thereafter and may be terminated, completed,
consummated or enforced as required or permitted by any statute or other law amended or repealed by this act
as though such repeal or amendment had not occurred.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964.
440.9994 Effect of Article 7.
Sec. 9994. The article on documents of title (article 7) does not repeal or modify any laws prescribing the
form or contents of documents of title or the services or facilities to be afforded by bailees, or otherwise
regulating bailees' businesses in respects not specifically dealt with herein. The fact that such laws are
violated does not affect the status of a document of title which otherwise complies with the definition of a
document of title (section 1201).
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1964, Act 250, Eff. Aug. 28, 1964;⎯Am. 1998, Act 278, Imd. Eff. July 27, 1998.