ARTICLE 5

LETTERS OF CREDIT

440.5101 Uniform commercial code—letters of credit; short title of article.
Sec. 5101. This article may be cited as uniform commercial code—letters of credit.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999.
440.5102 Definitions.
Sec. 5102. (1) As used in this article:
(a) "Adviser" means a person who, at the request of the issuer, a confirmer, or another adviser, notifies or
requests another adviser to notify the beneficiary that a letter of credit has been issued, confirmed, or
amended.
(b) "Applicant" means a person at whose request or for whose account a letter of credit is issued. The term
includes a person who requests an issuer to issue a letter of credit on behalf of another if the person making
the request undertakes an obligation to reimburse the issuer.
(c) "Beneficiary" means a person who under the terms of a letter of credit is entitled to have its complying
presentation honored. The term includes a person to whom drawing rights have been transferred under a
transferable letter of credit.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 109 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
(d) "Confirmer" means a nominated person who undertakes, at the request or with the consent of the issuer,
to honor a presentation under a letter of credit issued by another.
(e) "Dishonor" of a letter of credit means failure timely to honor or to take an interim action, such as
acceptance of a draft, that may be required by the letter of credit.
(f) "Document" means a draft or other demand, document of title, investment security, certificate, invoice,
or other record, statement, or representation of fact, law, right, or opinion that is not oral which is both of the
following:
(i) Presented in a written or other medium permitted by the letter of credit or, unless prohibited by the letter
of credit, by the standard practice referred to in section 5108(5).
(ii) Capable of being examined for compliance with the terms and conditions of the letter of credit.
(g) "Good faith" means honesty in fact in the conduct or transaction concerned.
(h) "Honor" of a letter of credit means performance of the issuer's undertaking in the letter of credit to pay
or deliver an item of value. Unless the letter of credit otherwise provides, "honor" occurs:
(i) Upon payment.
(ii) If the letter of credit provides for acceptance, upon acceptance of a draft and, at maturity, its payment.
(iii) If the letter of credit provides for incurring a deferred obligation, upon incurring the obligation and, at
maturity, its performance.
(i) "Issuer" means a bank or other person that issues a letter of credit, but does not include an individual
who makes an engagement for personal, family, or household purposes.
(j) "Letter of credit" means a definite undertaking that satisfies the requirements of section 5104 by an
issuer to a beneficiary at the request or for the account of an applicant or, in the case of a financial institution,
to itself or for its own account, to honor a documentary presentation by payment or delivery of an item of
value.
(k) "Nominated person" means both of the following:
(i) A person whom the issuer designates or authorizes to pay, accept, negotiate, or otherwise give value
under a letter of credit.
(ii) A person whom the issuer undertakes by agreement or custom and practice to reimburse.
(l) "Presentation" means delivery of a document to an issuer or nominated person for honor or giving of
value under a letter of credit.
(m) "Presenter" means a person making a presentation as or on behalf of a beneficiary or nominated
person.
(n) "Record" means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium, or that is stored in an electronic or
other medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.
(o) "Successor of a beneficiary" means a person who succeeds to substantially all of the rights of a
beneficiary by operation of law, including a corporation with or into which the beneficiary has been merged
or consolidated, an administrator, executor, personal representative, trustee in bankruptcy, debtor in
possession, liquidator, and receiver.
(2) Definitions in other articles applying to this article and the sections in which they appear are:
 "Accept" or "acceptance". Section 3409.

 "Value". Sections 3303 and 4211.

(3) Article 1 contains certain additional general definitions and principles of construction and interpretation
applicable throughout this article.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999.
440.5103 Letters of credit; scope of article.
Sec. 5103. (1) This article applies to letters of credit and to certain rights and obligations arising out of
transactions involving letters of credit.
(2) The statement of a rule in this article does not by itself require, imply, or negate application of the same
or a different rule to a situation not provided for, or to a person not specified, in this article.
(3) With the exception of this subsection, subsections (1) and (4), sections 5102(1)(i) and (j), 5106(4), and
5114(4), and except to the extent prohibited in sections 1302 and 5117(4), the effect of this article may be
varied by agreement or by a provision stated or incorporated by reference in an undertaking. A term in an
agreement or undertaking generally excusing liability or generally limiting remedies for failure to perform
obligations is not sufficient to vary obligations prescribed by this article.
(4) Rights and obligations of an issuer to a beneficiary or a nominated person under a letter of credit are
independent of the existence, performance, or nonperformance of a contract or arrangement out of which the
letter of credit arises or which underlies it, including contracts or arrangements between the issuer and the
applicant and between the applicant and the beneficiary.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 110 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999;⎯Am. 2012, Act 86, Eff. July 1, 2013.
440.5104 Issuance; authentication.
Sec. 5104. A letter of credit, confirmation, advice, transfer, amendment, or cancellation may be issued in
any form that is a record and is authenticated by 1 or more of the following:
(a) A signature.
(b) In accordance with the agreement of the parties or the standard practice referred to in section 5108(5).
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999.
440.5105 Consideration.
Sec. 5105. Consideration is not required to issue, amend, transfer, or cancel a letter of credit, advice, or
confirmation.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999.
440.5106 Credit; issuance; enforcement; revocation; expiration.
Sec. 5106. (1) A letter of credit is issued and becomes enforceable according to its terms against the issuer
when the issuer sends or otherwise transmits it to the person requested to advise or to the beneficiary. A letter
of credit is revocable only if it so provides.
(2) After a letter of credit is issued, rights and obligations of a beneficiary, applicant, confirmer, and issuer
are not affected by an amendment or cancellation to which that person has not consented except to the extent
the letter of credit provides that it is revocable or that the issuer may amend or cancel the letter of credit
without that consent.
(3) If there is no stated expiration date or other provision that determines its duration, a letter of credit
expires 1 year after its stated date of issuance or, if none is stated, after the date on which it is issued.
(4) A letter of credit that states that it is perpetual expires 5 years after its stated date of issuance, or if none
is stated, after the date on which it is issued.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999.
440.5107 Confirmation; rights and obligations; request to advise; notice to transferee
beneficiary.
Sec. 5107. (1) A confirmer is directly obligated on a letter of credit and has the rights and obligations of an
issuer to the extent of its confirmation. The confirmer also has rights against and obligations to the issuer as if
the issuer were an applicant and the confirmer had issued the letter of credit at the request and for the account
of the issuer.
(2) A nominated person who is not a confirmer is not obligated to honor or otherwise give value for a
presentation.
(3) A person requested to advise may decline to act as an adviser. An adviser that is not a confirmer is not
obligated to honor or give value for a presentation. An adviser undertakes to the issuer and to the beneficiary
accurately to advise the terms of the letter of credit, confirmation, amendment, or advice received by that
person and undertakes to the beneficiary to check the apparent authenticity of the request to advise. Even if
the advice is inaccurate, the letter of credit, confirmation, or amendment is enforceable as issued.
(4) A person who notifies a transferee beneficiary of the terms of a letter of credit, confirmation,
amendment, or advice has the rights and obligations of an adviser under subsection (3). The terms in the
notice to the transferee beneficiary may differ from the terms in any notice to the transferor beneficiary to the
extent permitted by the letter of credit, confirmation, amendment, or advice received by the person who so
notifies.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999.
440.5108 Honoring or dishonoring presentation.
Sec. 5108. (1) Except as otherwise provided in section 5109, an issuer shall honor a presentation that, as
determined by the standard practice referred to in subsection (5), appears on its face strictly to comply with
the terms and conditions of the letter of credit. Except as otherwise provided in section 5113 and unless
otherwise agreed with the applicant, an issuer shall dishonor a presentation that does not appear to comply.
(2) An issuer has a reasonable time after presentation, but not beyond the end of the seventh business day
of the issuer after the day of its receipt of documents to do 1 or more of the following:
(a) To honor.
(b) If the letter of credit provides for honor to be completed more than 7 business days after presentation,
to accept a draft or incur a deferred obligation.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 111 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
(c) To give notice to the presenter of discrepancies in the presentation.
(3) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (4), an issuer is precluded from asserting as a basis for
dishonor any discrepancy if timely notice is not given, or any discrepancy not stated in the notice if timely
notice is given.
(4) Failure to give the notice specified in subsection (2) or to mention fraud, forgery, or expiration in the
notice does not preclude the issuer from asserting as a basis for dishonor fraud or forgery as described in
section 5109(1) or expiration of the letter of credit before presentation.
(5) An issuer shall observe standard practice of financial institutions that regularly issue letters of credit.
Determination of the issuer's observance of the standard practice is a matter of interpretation for the court.
The court shall offer the parties a reasonable opportunity to present evidence of the standard practice.
(6) An issuer is not responsible for:
(a) The performance or nonperformance of the underlying contract, arrangement, or transaction.
(b) An act or omission of others.
(c) Observance or knowledge of the usage of a particular trade other than the standard practice referred to
in subsection (5).
(7) If an undertaking constituting a letter of credit under section 5102(1)(j) contains nondocumentary
conditions, an issuer shall disregard the nondocumentary conditions and treat them as if they were not stated.
(8) An issuer that has dishonored a presentation shall return the documents or hold them at the disposal of,
and send advice to that effect to, the presenter.
(9) An issuer that has honored a presentation as permitted or required by this article:
(a) Is entitled to be reimbursed by the applicant in immediately available funds not later than the date of its
payment of funds.
(b) Takes the documents free of claims of the beneficiary or presenter.
(c) Is precluded from asserting a right of recourse on a draft under sections 3414 and 3415.
(d) Except as otherwise provided in sections 5110 and 5117, is precluded from restitution of money paid or
other value given by mistake to the extent the mistake concerns discrepancies in the documents or tender
which are apparent on the face of the presentation.
(e) Is discharged to the extent of its performance under the letter of credit unless the issuer honored a
presentation in which a required signature of a beneficiary was forged.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999.
440.5109 Forged or fraudulent document; injunction; findings of court.
Sec. 5109. (1) If a presentation is made that appears on its face strictly to comply with the terms and
conditions of the letter of credit, but a required document is forged or materially fraudulent, or honor of the
presentation would facilitate a material fraud by the beneficiary on the issuer or applicant:
(a) The issuer shall honor the presentation, if honor is demanded by 1 or more of the following:
(i) A nominated person who has given value in good faith and without notice of forgery or material fraud.
(ii) A confirmer who has honored its confirmation in good faith.
(iii) A holder in due course of a draft drawn under the letter of credit which was taken after acceptance by
the issuer or nominated person.
(iv) An assignee of the issuer's or nominated person's deferred obligation that was taken for value and
without notice of forgery or material fraud after the obligation was incurred by the issuer or nominated
person.
(b) The issuer, acting in good faith, may honor or dishonor the presentation in any other cause.
(2) If an applicant claims that a required document is forged or materially fraudulent or that honor of the
presentation would facilitate a material fraud by the beneficiary on the issuer or applicant, a court of
competent jurisdiction may temporarily or permanently enjoin the issuer from honoring a presentation or
grant similar relief against the issuer or other persons only if the court finds all of the following:
(a) The relief is not prohibited under the law applicable to an accepted draft or deferred obligation incurred
by the issuer.
(b) A beneficiary, issuer, or nominated person who may be adversely affected is adequately protected
against loss that it may suffer because the relief is granted.
(c) All of the conditions to entitle a person to the relief under the law of this state have been met.
(d) On the basis of the information submitted to the court, the applicant is more likely than not to succeed
under its claim of forgery or material fraud and the person demanding honor does not qualify for protection
under subsection (1)(a).
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 112 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
440.5110 Warranties on presentment or transfer.
Sec. 5110. (1) If presentation is honored, the beneficiary warrants:
(a) To the issuer, any other person to whom presentation is made, and the applicant that there is no fraud or
forgery of the kind described in section 5109(1).
(b) To the applicant that the drawing does not violate any agreement between the applicant and beneficiary
or any other agreement intended by them to be augmented by the letter of credit.
(2) The warranties in subsection (1) are in addition to warranties arising under articles 3, 4, 7, and 8
because of the presentation or transfer of documents covered by any of those articles.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999.
440.5111 Wrongful dishonor, repudiation, or breach; rights of claimant or applicant; liability
of issuer, nominated person, or adviser; attorney fees; liquidated damages.
Sec. 5111. (1) If an issuer wrongfully dishonors or repudiates its obligation to pay money under a letter of
credit before presentation, the beneficiary, successor, or nominated person presenting on its own behalf may
recover from the issuer the amount that is the subject of the dishonor or repudiation. If the issuer's obligation
under the letter of credit is not for the payment of money, the claimant may obtain specific performance or, at
the claimant's election, recover an amount equal to the value of performance from the issuer. In either case,
the claimant may also recover incidental but not consequential damages. The claimant is not obligated to take
action to avoid damages that might be due from the issuer under this subsection. If, although not obligated to
do so, the claimant avoids damages, the claimant's recovery from the issuer must be reduced by the amount of
damages avoided. The issuer has the burden of proving the amount of damages avoided. In the case of
repudiation the claimant need not present any document.
(2) If an issuer wrongfully dishonors a draft or demand presented under a letter of credit or honors a draft
or demand in breach of its obligation to the applicant, the applicant may recover damages resulting from the
breach, including incidental but not consequential damages, less any amount saved as a result of the breach.
(3) If an adviser or nominated person other than a confirmer breaches an obligation under this article or an
issuer breaches an obligation not covered in subsection (1) or (2), a person to whom the obligation is owed
may recover damages resulting from the breach, including incidental but not consequential damages, less any
amount saved as a result of the breach. To the extent of the confirmation, a confirmer has the liability of an
issuer specified in this subsection and subsections (1) and (2).
(4) An issuer, nominated person, or adviser who is found liable under subsection (1), (2), or (3) shall pay
interest on the amount owed from the date of wrongful dishonor or other appropriate date.
(5) Reasonable attorney's fees and other expenses of litigation shall be awarded to the prevailing party in
an action in which a remedy is sought under this article.
(6) Damages that would otherwise be payable by a party for breach of an obligation under this article may
be liquidated by agreement or undertaking, but only in an amount or by a formula that is reasonable in light of
the harm anticipated.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999.
440.5112 Right to draw or demand performance under letter of credit; transfer.
Sec. 5112. (1) Except as otherwise provided in section 5113, unless a letter of credit provides that it is
transferable, the right of a beneficiary to draw or otherwise demand performance under a letter of credit may
not be transferred.
(2) Even if a letter of credit provides that it is transferable, the issuer may refuse to recognize or carry out a
transfer if either of the following applies:
(a) The transfer would violate applicable law.
(b) The transferor or transferee has failed to comply with any requirement stated in the letter of credit or
any other requirement relating to transfer imposed by the issuer which is within the standard practice referred
to in section 5108(5) or is otherwise reasonable under the circumstances.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999.
440.5113 Rights of successor beneficiary.
Sec. 5113. (1) A successor of a beneficiary may consent to amendments, sign and present documents, and
receive payment or other items of value in the name of the beneficiary without disclosing its status as a
successor.
(2) A successor of a beneficiary may consent to amendments, sign and present documents, and receive
payment or other items of value in its own name as the disclosed successor of the beneficiary. Except as
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 113 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
otherwise provided in subsection (5), an issuer shall recognize a disclosed successor of a beneficiary as
beneficiary in full substitution for its predecessor upon compliance with the requirements for recognition by
the issuer of a transfer of drawing rights by operation of law under the standard practice referred to in section
5108(5) or, in the absence of such a practice, compliance with other reasonable procedures sufficient to
protect the issuer.
(3) An issuer is not obliged to determine whether a purported successor is a successor of a beneficiary or
whether the signature of a purported successor is genuine or authorized.
(4) Honor of a purported successor's apparently complying presentation under subsection (1) or (2) has the
consequences specified in section 5108(9) even if the purported successor is not the successor of a
beneficiary. Documents signed in the name of the beneficiary or of a disclosed successor by a person who is
neither the beneficiary nor the successor of the beneficiary are forged documents for the purposes of section
5109.
(5) An issuer whose rights of reimbursement are not covered by subsection (4) or substantially similar law
and any confirmer or nominated person may decline to recognize a presentation under subsection (2).
(6) A beneficiary whose name is changed after the issuance of a letter of credit has the same rights and
obligations as a successor of a beneficiary under this section.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999.
440.5114 Proceeds of letter of credit.
Sec. 5114. (1) In this section, “proceeds of a letter of credit” means the cash, check, accepted draft, or
other item of value paid or delivered upon honor or giving of value by the issuer or any nominated person
under the letter of credit. The term does not include a beneficiary's drawing rights or documents presented by
the beneficiary.
(2) A beneficiary may assign its right to part or all of the proceeds of a letter of credit. The beneficiary may
do so before presentation as a present assignment of its right to receive proceeds contingent upon its
compliance with the terms and conditions of the letter of credit.
(3) An issuer or nominated person need not recognize an assignment of proceeds of a letter of credit until it
consents to the assignment.
(4) An issuer or nominated person has no obligation to give or withhold its consent to an assignment of
proceeds of a letter of credit, but consent may not be unreasonably withheld if the assignee possesses and
exhibits the letter of credit and presentation of the letter of credit is a condition to honor.
(5) Rights of a transferee beneficiary or nominated person are independent of the beneficiary's assignment
of the proceeds of a letter of credit and are superior to the assignee's right to the proceeds.
(6) The rights recognized by this section between an assignee and an issuer, transferee beneficiary, or
nominated person or the issuer's or nominated person's payment of proceeds to an assignee or a third person
do not affect the rights between the assignee and any person other than the issuer, transferee beneficiary, or
nominated person. The mode of creating and perfecting a security interest in or granting an assignment of a
beneficiary's rights to proceeds is governed by article 9 or other law. Against persons other than the issuer,
transferee beneficiary, or nominated person, the rights and obligations arising upon the creation of a security
interest or other assignment of a beneficiary's right to proceeds and its perfection are governed by article 9 or
other law.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1987, Act 16, Imd. Eff. Apr. 24, 1987;⎯Am. 1998, Act 278, Imd. Eff. July 27,
1998;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999.
440.5115 Commencement of action.
Sec. 5115. An action to enforce a right or obligation arising under this article must be commenced within 1
year after the expiration date of the relevant letter of credit or 1 year after the cause of action accrues,
whichever occurs later. A cause of action accrues when the breach occurs, regardless of the aggrieved party's
lack of knowledge of the breach.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999.
440.5116 Jurisdiction; forum.
Sec. 5116. (1) The liability of an issuer, nominated person, or adviser for action or omission is governed by
the law of the jurisdiction chosen by an agreement in the form of a record signed or otherwise authenticated
by the affected parties in the manner provided in section 5104 or by a provision in the person's letter of credit,
confirmation, or other undertaking. The jurisdiction whose law is chosen need not bear any relation to the
transaction.
(2) Unless subsection (1) applies, the liability of an issuer, nominated person, or adviser for action or
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 114 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
omission is governed by the law of the jurisdiction in which the person is located. The person is considered to
be located at the address indicated in the person's undertaking. If more than 1 address is indicated, the person
is considered to be located at the address from which the person's undertaking was issued. For the purpose of
jurisdiction, choice of law, and recognition of interbranch letters of credit, but not enforcement of a judgment,
all branches of a bank are considered separate juridical entities and a bank is considered to be located at the
place where its relevant branch is considered to be located under this subsection.
(3) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the liability of an issuer, nominated person, or adviser
is governed by any rules of custom or practice, such as the uniform customs and practice for documentary
credits, to which the letter of credit, confirmation, or other undertaking is expressly made subject. If this
article would govern the liability of an issuer, nominated person, or adviser under subsection (1) or (2), or the
relevant undertaking incorporates rules of custom or practice, or there is conflict between this article and
those rules as applied to that undertaking, those rules govern except to the extent of any conflict with the
nonvariable provisions specified in section 5103(3).
(4) If there is conflict between this article and article 3, 4, 4a, or 9, this article governs.
(5) The forum for settling disputes arising out of an undertaking within this article may be chosen in the
manner and with the binding effect that governing law may be chosen in accordance with subsection (1).
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1978, Act 369, Eff. Jan. 1, 1979;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999.
440.5117 Rights of subrogation.
Sec. 5117. (1) An issuer that honors a beneficiary's presentation is subrogated to the rights of the
beneficiary to the same extent as if the issuer were a secondary obligor of the underlying obligation owed to
the beneficiary and of the applicant to the same extent as if the issuer were the secondary obligor of the
underlying obligation owed to the applicant.
(2) An applicant that reimburses an issuer is subrogated to the rights of the issuer against any beneficiary,
presenter, or nominated person to the same extent as if the applicant were the secondary obligor of the
obligations owed to the issuer and has the rights of subrogation of the issuer to the rights of the beneficiary
stated in subsection (1).
(3) A nominated person who pays or gives value against a draft or demand presented under a letter of
credit is subrogated to the rights of all of the following:
(a) The issuer against the applicant to the same extent as if the nominated person were a secondary obligor
of the obligation owed to the issuer by the applicant.
(b) The beneficiary to the same extent as if the nominated person were a secondary obligor of the
underlying obligation owed to the beneficiary.
(c) The applicant to the same extent as if the nominated person were a secondary obligor of the underlying
obligation owed to the applicant.
(4) Notwithstanding any agreement or term to the contrary, the rights of subrogation stated in subsections
(1) and (2) do not arise until the issuer honors the letter of credit or otherwise pays and the rights in subsection
(3) do not arise until the nominated person pays or otherwise gives value. Until then, the issuer, nominated
person, and the applicant do not derive under this section present or prospective rights forming the basis of a
claim, defense, or excuse.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999.
440.5118 Document presented under letter of credit; security interest of issuer or nominated
person.
Sec. 5118. (1) An issuer or nominated person has a security interest in a document presented under a letter
of credit to the extent that the issuer or nominated person honors or gives value for the presentation.
(2) So long as and to the extent that an issuer or nominated person has not been reimbursed or has not
otherwise recovered the value given with respect to a security interest in a document under subsection (1), the
security interest continues and is subject to article 9, but all of the following apply:
(a) A security agreement is not necessary to make the security interest enforceable under section
9203(2)(c).
(b) If the document is presented in a medium other than a written or other tangible medium, the security
interest is perfected.
(c) If the document is presented in a written or other tangible medium and is not a certificated security,
chattel paper, a document of title, an instrument, or a letter of credit, the security interest is perfected and has
priority over a conflicting security interest in the document so long as the debtor does not have possession of
the document.
History: Add. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001. 