ARTICLE 4A

FUNDS TRANSFERS

PART 1

SUBJECT MATTERS AND DEFINITIONS

440.4601 Short title.
Sec. 4A101. This article shall be known and may be cited as “uniform commercial code—funds transfers”.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4602 Applicability of article.
Sec. 4A102. Except as otherwise provided in section 4A108, this article applies to funds transfers defined
in section 4A104.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4603 Definitions; instruction as a separate payment order; issuance of payment order.
Sec. 4A103. (1) As used in this article:
(a) “Payment order” means an instruction of a sender to a receiving bank, transmitted orally, electronically,
or in writing, to pay, or to cause another bank to pay, a fixed or determinable amount of money to a
beneficiary if the following apply:
(i) The instruction does not state a condition to payment to the beneficiary other than time of payment.
(ii) The receiving bank is to be reimbursed by debiting an account of, or otherwise receiving payment
from, the sender.
(iii) The instruction is transmitted by the sender directly to the receiving bank or to an agent, funds-transfer
system, or communication system for transmittal to the receiving bank.
(b) “Beneficiary” means the person to be paid by the beneficiary's bank.
(c) “Beneficiary's bank” means the bank identified in a payment order in which an account of the
beneficiary is to be credited pursuant to the order or which otherwise is to make payment to the beneficiary if
the order does not provide for payment to an account.
(d) “Receiving bank” means the bank to which the sender's instruction is addressed.
(e) “Sender” means the person giving the instruction to the receiving bank.
(2) If an instruction complying with subsection (1)(a) is to make more than 1 payment to a beneficiary, the
instruction is a separate payment order with respect to each payment.
(3) A payment order is issued when it is sent to the receiving bank.

History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.

440.4604 Definitions.
Sec. 4A104. As used in this article:
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 95 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
(a) “Funds transfer” means the series of transactions, beginning with the originator's payment order, made
for the purpose of making payment to the beneficiary of the order. The term includes any payment order
issued by the originator's bank or an intermediary bank intended to carry out the originator's payment order. A
funds transfer is completed by acceptance by the beneficiary's bank of a payment order for the benefit of the
beneficiary of the originator's payment order.
(b) “Intermediary bank” means a receiving bank other than the originator's bank or the beneficiary's bank.
(c) “Originator” means the sender of the first payment order in a funds transfer.
(d) “Originator's bank” means (i) the receiving bank to which the payment order of the originator is issued
if the originator is not a bank, or (ii) the originator if the originator is a bank.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4605 Definitions; sections where other definitions appear.
Sec. 4A105. (1) As used in this article:
(a) "Authorized account" means a deposit account of a customer in a bank designated by the customer as a
source of payment of payment orders issued by the customer to the bank. If a customer does not so designate
an account, any account of the customer is an authorized account if payment of a payment order from that
account is not inconsistent with a restriction on the use of that account.
(b) "Bank" means a person engaged in the business of banking and includes a savings bank, savings and
loan association, credit union, and trust company. A branch or separate office of a bank is a separate bank for
purposes of this article.
(c) "Customer" means a person, including a bank, having an account with a bank or from whom a bank has
agreed to receive payment orders.
(d) "Funds-transfer business day" of a receiving bank means the part of a day during which the receiving
bank is open for the receipt, processing, and transmittal of payment orders and cancellations and amendments
of payment orders.
(e) "Funds-transfer system" means a wire transfer network, automated clearinghouse, or other
communication system of a clearinghouse or other association of banks through which a payment order by a
bank may be transmitted to the bank to which the order is addressed.
(f) "Prove" with respect to a fact means to meet the burden of establishing the fact as defined in section
1201(2)(h).
(2) Other definitions applying to this article and the sections in which they appear are as follows:
 "Acceptance". Section 4A209.

 "Beneficiary". Section 4A103.

 "Beneficiary's bank". Section 4A103.

 "Executed". Section 4A301.

 "Execution date". Section 4A301.

 "Funds transfer". Section 4A104.

 "Funds-transfer system rule". Section 4A501.

 "Intermediary bank". Section 4A104.

 "Originator". Section 4A104.

 "Originator's bank". Section 4A104.

 "Payment by beneficiary's bank to beneficiary". Section 4A405.

 "Payment by originator to beneficiary". Section 4A406.

 "Payment by sender to receiving bank". Section 4A403.

 "Payment date". Section 4A401.

 "Payment order". Section 4A103.

 "Receiving bank". Section 4A103.

 "Security procedure". Section 4A201.

 "Sender". Section 4A103.

(3) The following definitions in article 4 apply to this article:
 "Clearing-house". Section 4104.

 "Item". Section 4104.

 "Suspends payments". Section 4104.

(4) In addition, article 1 contains general definitions and principles of construction and interpretation
applicable throughout this article.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992;⎯Am. 2012, Act 86, Eff. July 1, 2013.
440.4606 Payment order or communication canceling or amending payment order;
determining time of receipt.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 96 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
Sec. 4A106. (1) The time of receipt of a payment order or communication canceling or amending a
payment order is determined by the rules applicable to receipt of a notice stated in section 1202. A receiving
bank may fix a cut-off time or times on a funds transfer business day for the receipt and processing of
payment orders and communications canceling or amending payment orders. Different cut-off times may
apply to payment orders, cancellations, or amendments, or to different categories of payment orders,
cancellations, or amendments. A cut-off time may apply to senders generally or different cut-off times may
apply to different senders or categories of payment orders. If a payment order or communication canceling or
amending a payment order is received after the close of a funds transfer business day or after the appropriate
cut-off time on a funds transfer business day, the receiving bank may treat the payment order or
communication as received at the opening of the next funds transfer business day.
(2) If this article refers to an execution date or payment date or states a day on which a receiving bank is
required to take action, and the date or day does not fall on a funds transfer business day, the next day that is a
funds transfer business day is treated as the date or day stated, unless the contrary is stated in this article.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992;⎯Am. 2012, Act 86, Eff. July 1, 2013.
440.4607 Regulations of federal reserve system as superseding article.
Sec. 4A107. Regulations of the board of governors of the federal reserve system and operating circulars of
the federal reserve banks supersede any inconsistent provision of this article to the extent of the inconsistency.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4608 Applicability of article to certain funds transfer; inconsistency; "electronic fund
transfer act" defined.
Sec. 4A108. (1) Except as provided in subsection (2), this article does not apply to a funds transfer any part
of which is governed by the electronic fund transfer act.
(2) This article applies to a funds transfer that is a remittance transfer as defined in 15 USC 1693o-1,
unless the remittance transfer is an electronic fund transfer as defined in 15 USC 1693a.
(3) In a funds transfer to which this article applies, in the event of an inconsistency between an applicable
provision of this article and an applicable provision of the electronic fund transfer act, the provision of the
electronic fund transfer act governs to the extent of the inconsistency.
(4) As used in this section, "electronic fund transfer act" means the electronic fund transfer act, 15 USC
1693 to 1693r.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992;⎯Am. 2014, Act 105, Imd. Eff. Apr. 10, 2014.
PART 2

ISSUE AND ACCEPTANCE OF PAYMENT ORDER

440.4701 “Security procedure” defined.
Sec. 4A201. “Security procedure” means a procedure established by agreement of a customer and a
receiving bank for the purpose of (i) verifying that a payment order or communication amending or canceling
a payment order is that of the customer, or (ii) detecting error in the transmission of the content of the
payment order or communication. A security procedure may require the use of algorithms or other codes,
identifying words or numbers, encryption, callback procedures, or similar security devices. Comparison of a
signature on a payment order or communication with an authorized specimen signature of the customer is not
by itself a security procedure.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4702 Authorized payment order; verification by security procedure; determination of
commercial reasonableness; “sender” defined; applicability of section to amendments
and cancellations of payment orders; agreement to vary rights and obligations prohibited.
Sec. 4A202. (1) A payment order received by the receiving bank is the authorized order of the person
identified as sender if that person authorized the order or is otherwise bound by it under the law of agency.
(2) If a bank and its customer have agreed that the authenticity of payment orders issued to the bank in the
name of the customer as sender will be verified pursuant to a security procedure, a payment order received by
the receiving bank is effective as the order of the customer, whether or not authorized, if (i) the security
procedure is a commercially reasonable method of providing security against unauthorized payment orders,
and (ii) the bank proves that it accepted the payment order in good faith and in compliance with the security
procedure and any written agreement or instruction of the customer restricting acceptance of payment orders
issued in the name of the customer. The bank is not required to follow an instruction that violates a written
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 97 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
agreement with the customer or notice of which is not received at a time and in a manner affording the bank a
reasonable opportunity to act on it before the payment order is accepted.
(3) Commercial reasonableness of a security procedure is a question of law to be determined by
considering the wishes of the customer expressed to the bank, the circumstances of the customer known to the
bank, including the size, type, and frequency of payment orders normally issued by the customer to the bank,
alternative security procedures offered to the customer, and security procedures in general use by customers
and receiving banks similarly situated. A security procedure is deemed to be commercially reasonable if (i)
the security procedure was chosen by the customer after the bank offered, and the customer refused, a security
procedure that was commercially reasonable for that customer, and (ii) the customer expressly agreed in
writing to be bound by any payment order, whether or not authorized, issued in its name and accepted by the
bank in compliance with the security procedure chosen by the customer.
(4) The term “sender” in this article includes the customer in whose name a payment order is issued if the
order is the authorized order of the customer under subsection (1), or it is effective as the order of the
customer under subsection (2).
(5) This section applies to amendments and cancellations of payment orders to the same extent it applies to
payment orders.
(6) Except as provided in this section and in section 4A203(1)(a), rights and obligations arising under this
section or section 4A203 may not be varied by agreement.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4703 Payment order effective pursuant to MCL 440.4702; application of rules;
applicability of section to amendments of payment orders.
Sec. 4A203. (1) If an accepted payment order is not, under section 4A202(1), an authorized order of a
customer identified as sender, but is effective as an order of the customer pursuant to section 4A202(2), the
following rules apply:
(a) By express written agreement, the receiving bank may limit the extent to which it is entitled to enforce
or retain payment of the payment order.
(b) The receiving bank is not entitled to enforce or retain payment of the payment order if the customer
proves that the order was not caused, directly or indirectly, by a person (i) entrusted at anytime with duties to
act for the customer with respect to payment orders or the security procedure, or (ii) who obtained access to
transmitting facilities of the customer or who obtained, from a source controlled by the customer and without
authority of the receiving bank, information facilitating breach of the security procedure, regardless of how
the information was obtained or whether the customer was at fault. Information includes any access device,
computer software, or the like.
(2) This section applies to amendments of payment orders to the same extent it applies to payment orders.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4704 Receiving bank; acceptance of unauthorized or nonenforceable payment; refund;
interest; recovery; reasonable time fixed by agreement; agreement to vary obligation to
refund payment prohibited.
Sec. 4A204. (1) If a receiving bank accepts a payment order issued in the name of its customer as sender
which is (i) not authorized and not effective as the order of the customer under section 4A202, or (ii) not
enforceable, in whole or in part, against the customer under section 4A203, the bank shall refund any payment
of the payment order received from the customer to the extent the bank is not entitled to enforce payment and
shall pay interest on the refundable amount calculated from the date the bank received payment to the date of
the refund. However, the customer is not entitled to interest from the bank on the amount to be refunded if the
customer fails to exercise ordinary care to determine that the order was not authorized by the customer and to
notify the bank of the relevant facts within a reasonable time not exceeding 90 days after the date the
customer received notification from the bank that the order was accepted or that the customer's account was
debited with respect to the order. The bank is not entitled to any recovery from the customer on account of a
failure by the customer to give notification as stated in this section.
(2) Reasonable time under subsection (1) may be fixed by agreement as stated in section 1302(2), but the
obligation of a receiving bank to refund payment as stated in subsection (1) may not otherwise be varied by
agreement.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992;⎯Am. 2012, Act 86, Eff. July 1, 2013.
440.4705 Erroneous payment order; duty and liability of sender upon notification from
receiving bank; applicability of section to amendments to payment orders.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 98 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
Sec. 4A205. (1) If an accepted payment order was transmitted pursuant to a security procedure for the
detection of error and the payment order (i) erroneously instructed payment to a beneficiary not intended by
the sender, (ii) erroneously instructed payment in an amount greater than the amount intended by the sender,
or (iii) was an erroneously transmitted duplicate of a payment order previously sent by the sender, the
following rules apply:
(a) If the sender proves that the sender or a person acting on behalf of the sender pursuant to section 4A206
complied with the security procedure and that the error would have been detected if the receiving bank had
also complied, the sender is not obliged to pay the order to the extent stated in subdivisions (b) and (c).
(b) If the funds transfer is completed on the basis of an erroneous payment order described in subsection
(1)(i) or (iii), the sender is not obliged to pay the order and the receiving bank is entitled to recover from the
beneficiary any amount paid to the beneficiary to the extent allowed by the law governing mistake and
restitution.
(c) If the funds transfer is completed on the basis of a payment order described in subsection (1)(ii), the
sender is not obliged to pay the order to the extent the amount received by the beneficiary is greater than the
amount intended by the sender. In that case, the receiving bank is entitled to recover from the beneficiary the
excess amount received to the extent allowed by the law governing mistake and restitution.
(2) If (i) the sender of an erroneous payment order described in subsection (1) is not obliged to pay all or
part of the order, and (ii) the sender receives notification from the receiving bank that the order was accepted
by the bank or that the sender's account was debited with respect to the order, the sender has a duty to exercise
ordinary care, on the basis of information available to the sender, to discover the error with respect to the
order and to advise the bank of the relevant facts within a reasonable time, not exceeding 90 days, after the
bank's notification was received by the sender. If the bank proves that the sender failed to perform that duty,
the sender is liable to the bank for the loss the bank proves it incurred as a result of the failure, but the liability
of the sender may not exceed the amount of the sender's order.
(3) This section applies to amendments to payment orders to the same extent it applies to payment orders.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4706 Transmitting payment order to funds-transfer system or other third-party
communication system; system as agent; effect of discrepancy; applicability of section.
Sec. 4A206. (1) If a payment order addressed to a receiving bank is transmitted to a funds-transfer system
or other third-party communication system for transmittal to the bank, the system is deemed to be an agent of
the sender for the purpose of transmitting the payment order to the bank. If there is a discrepancy between the
terms of the payment order transmitted to the system and the terms of the payment order transmitted by the
system to the bank, the terms of the payment order of the sender are those transmitted by the system. This
section does not apply to a funds-transfer system of the federal reserve banks.
(2) This section applies to cancellations and amendments of payment orders to the same extent it applies to
payment orders.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4707 Payment order; identification of beneficiary; nonexistent or unidentifiable person
or account; name and number identifying different persons; inconsistent identification by
name and number; recovery of amount paid.
Sec. 4A207. (1) Subject to subsection (2), if, in a payment order received by the beneficiary's bank, the
name, bank account number, or other identification of the beneficiary refers to a nonexistent or unidentifiable
person or account, no person has rights as a beneficiary of the order and acceptance of the order cannot occur.
(2) If a payment order received by the beneficiary's bank identifies the beneficiary both by name and by an
identifying or bank account number and the name and number identify different persons, the following rules
apply:
(a) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (3), if the beneficiary's bank does not know that the name
and number refer to different persons, it may rely on the number as the proper identification of the beneficiary
of the order. The beneficiary's bank need not determine whether the name and number refer to the same
person.
(b) If the beneficiary's bank pays the person identified by name or knows that the name and number
identify different persons, no person has rights as beneficiary except the person paid by the beneficiary's bank
if that person was entitled to receive payment from the originator of the funds transfer. If no person has rights
as beneficiary, acceptance of the order cannot occur.
(3) If (i) a payment order described in subsection (2) is accepted, (ii) the originator's payment order
described the beneficiary inconsistently by name and number, and (iii) the beneficiary's bank pays the person
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 99 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
identified by number as permitted by subsection (2)(a), the following rules apply:
(a) If the originator is a bank, the originator is obliged to pay its order.
(b) If the originator is not a bank and proves that the person identified by number was not entitled to
receive payment from the originator, the originator is not obliged to pay its order unless the originator's bank
proves that the originator, before acceptance of the originator's order, had notice that payment of a payment
order issued by the originator might be made by the beneficiary's bank on the basis of an identifying or bank
account number even if it identifies a person different from the named beneficiary. Proof of notice may be
made by any admissible evidence. The originator's bank satisfies the burden of proof if it proves that the
originator, before the payment order was accepted, signed a writing stating the information to which the
notice relates.
(4) In a case governed by subsection (2)(a), if the beneficiary's bank rightfully pays the person identified
by number and that person was not entitled to receive payment from the originator, the amount paid may be
recovered from that person to the extent allowed by the law governing mistake and restitution as follows:
(a) If the originator is obliged to pay its payment order as stated in subsection (3), the originator has the
right to recover.
(b) If the originator is not a bank and is not obliged to pay its payment order, the originator's bank has the
right to recover.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4708 Payment order; identification of intermediary or beneficiary bank; rules.
Sec. 4A208. (1) The following rules apply to a payment order identifying an intermediary bank or the
beneficiary's bank only by an identifying number:
(a) The receiving bank may rely on the number as the proper identification of the intermediary or
beneficiary's bank and need not determine whether the number identifies a bank.
(b) The sender is obliged to compensate the receiving bank for any loss and expenses incurred by the
receiving bank as a result of its reliance on the number in executing or attempting to execute the order.
(2) The following rules apply to a payment order identifying an intermediary bank or the beneficiary's
bank both by name and an identifying number if the name and number identify different persons.
(a) If the sender is a bank, the receiving bank may rely on the number as the proper identification of the
intermediary or beneficiary's bank if the receiving bank, when it executes the sender's order, does not know
that the name and number identify different persons. The receiving bank need not determine whether the
name and number refer to the same person or whether the number refers to a bank. The sender is obliged to
compensate the receiving bank for any loss and expenses incurred by the receiving bank as a result of its
reliance on the number in executing or attempting to execute the order.
(b) If the sender is not a bank and the receiving bank proves that the sender, before the payment order was
accepted, had notice that the receiving bank might rely on the number as the proper identification of the
intermediary or beneficiary's bank even if it identifies a person different from the bank identified by name, the
rights and obligations of the sender and the receiving bank are governed by subsection (2)(a), as though the
sender were a bank. Proof of notice may be made by any admissible evidence. The receiving bank satisfies
the burden of proof if it proves that the sender, before the payment order was accepted, signed a writing
stating the information to which the notice relates.
(c) Regardless of whether the sender is a bank, the receiving bank may rely on the name as the proper
identification of the intermediary or beneficiary's bank if the receiving bank, at the time it executes the
sender's order, does not know that the name and number identify different persons. The receiving bank need
not determine whether the name and number refer to the same person.
(d) If the receiving bank knows that the name and number identify different persons, reliance on either the
name or the number in executing the sender's payment order is a breach of the obligation stated in section
4A302(1)(a).
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4709 Acceptance of payment order.
Sec. 4A209. (1) Subject to subsection (4), a receiving bank other than the beneficiary's bank accepts a
payment order when it executes the order.
(2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), a beneficiary's bank accepts a payment order at the earliest of the
following times:
(a) When the bank pays the beneficiary as stated in section 4A405(1) or (2), or notifies the beneficiary of
receipt of the order or that the account of the beneficiary has been credited with respect to the order unless the
notice indicates that the bank is rejecting the order or that funds with respect to the order may not be
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 100 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
withdrawn or used until receipt of payment from the sender of the order.
(b) When the bank receives payment of the entire amount of the sender's order pursuant to section
4A403(1)(a) or (b).
(c) The opening of the next funds-transfer business day of the bank following the payment date of the order
if, at that time, the amount of the sender's order is fully covered by a withdrawable credit balance in an
authorized account of the sender or the bank has otherwise received full payment from the sender, unless the
order was rejected before that time or is rejected within 1 hour after that time, or 1 hour after the opening of
the next business day of the sender following the payment date if that time is later. If notice of rejection is
received by the sender after the payment date and the authorized account of the sender does not bear interest,
the bank is obliged to pay interest to the sender on the amount of the order for the number of days elapsing
after the payment date to the day the sender receives notice or learns that the order was not accepted, counting
that day as an elapsed day. If the withdrawable credit balance during that period falls below the amount of the
order, the amount of interest payable is reduced accordingly.
(3) Acceptance of a payment order cannot occur before the order is received by the receiving bank.
Acceptance does not occur under subsection (2)(b) or (c) if the beneficiary of the payment order does not
have an account with the receiving bank, the account has been closed, or the receiving bank is not permitted
by law to receive credits for the beneficiary's account.
(4) A payment order issued to the originator's bank cannot be accepted until the payment date if the bank is
the beneficiary's bank, or the execution date if the bank is not the beneficiary's bank. If the originator's bank
executes the originator's payment order before the execution date or pays the beneficiary of the originator's
payment order before the payment date and the payment order is subsequently canceled pursuant to section
4A211(2), the bank may recover from the beneficiary any payment received to the extent allowed by the law
governing mistake and restitution.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4710 Rejection of payment order.
Sec. 4A210. (1) A payment order is rejected by the receiving bank by a notice of rejection transmitted to
the sender orally, electronically, or in writing. A notice of rejection need not use any particular words and is
sufficient if it indicates that the receiving bank is rejecting the order or will not execute or pay the order.
Rejection is effective when the notice is given if transmission is by a means that is reasonable in the
circumstances. If notice of rejection is given by a means that is not reasonable, rejection is effective when the
notice is received. If an agreement of the sender and receiving bank establishes the means to be used to reject
a payment order, any means complying with the agreement is reasonable and any means not complying is not
reasonable unless no significant delay in receipt of the notice resulted from the use of the noncomplying
means.
(2) This subsection applies if a receiving bank other than the beneficiary's bank fails to execute a payment
order despite the existence on the execution date of a withdrawable credit balance in an authorized account of
the sender sufficient to cover the order. If the sender does not receive notice of rejection of the order on the
execution date and the authorized account of the sender does not bear interest, the bank is obliged to pay
interest to the sender on the amount of the order for the number of days elapsing after the execution date to
the earlier of the day the order is canceled pursuant to section 4A211(4) or the day the sender receives notice
or learns that the order was not executed, counting the final day of the period as an elapsed day. If the
withdrawable credit balance during that period falls below the amount of the order, the amount of interest is
reduced accordingly.
(3) If a receiving bank suspends payments, all unaccepted payment orders issued to it are deemed rejected
at the time the bank suspends payments.
(4) Acceptance of a payment order precludes a later rejection of the order. Rejection of a payment order
precludes a later acceptance of the order.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4711 Communication by sender canceling or amending payment order; method of
transmission; effectiveness; liability of sender for loss and expenses; revocation by death
or legal incapacity; effectiveness of funds-transfer system rule.
Sec. 4A211. (1) A communication of the sender of a payment order canceling or amending the order may
be transmitted to the receiving bank orally, electronically, or in writing. If a security procedure is in effect
between the sender and the receiving bank, the communication is not effective to cancel or amend the order
unless the communication is verified pursuant to the security procedure or the bank agrees to the cancellation
or amendment.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 101 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
(2) Subject to subsection (1), a communication by the sender canceling or amending a payment order is
effective to cancel or amend the order if notice of the communication is received at a time and in a manner
affording the receiving bank a reasonable opportunity to act on the communication before the bank accepts
the payment order.
(3) After a payment order has been accepted, cancellation, or amendment of the order is not effective
unless the receiving bank agrees or a funds-transfer system rule allows cancellation or amendment without
agreement of the bank. With respect to a payment order, the following rules apply:
(a) A payment order accepted by a receiving bank other than the beneficiary's bank, cancellation, or
amendment is not effective unless a conforming cancellation or amendment of the payment order issued by
the receiving bank is also made.
(b) A payment order accepted by the beneficiary's bank, cancellation, or amendment is not effective unless
the order was issued in execution of an unauthorized payment order, or because of a mistake by a sender in
the funds transfer which resulted in the issuance of a payment order that is a duplicate of a payment order
previously issued by the sender, that orders payment to a beneficiary not entitled to receive payment from the
originator, or that orders payment in an amount greater than the amount the beneficiary was entitled to receive
from the originator. If the payment order is canceled or amended, the beneficiary's bank is entitled to recover
from the beneficiary any amount paid to the beneficiary to the extent allowed by the law governing mistake
and restitution.
(4) An unaccepted payment order is canceled by operation of law at the close of the fifth funds-transfer
business day of the receiving bank after the execution date or payment date of the order.
(5) A canceled payment order cannot be accepted. If an accepted payment order is canceled, the acceptance
is nullified and no person has any right or obligation based on the acceptance. Amendment of a payment order
is deemed to be cancellation of the original order at the time of amendment and issue of a new payment order
in the amended form at the same time.
(6) Unless otherwise provided in an agreement of the parties or in a funds-transfer system rule, if the
receiving bank, after accepting a payment order, agrees to cancellation or amendment of the order by the
sender or is bound by a funds-transfer system rule allowing cancellation or amendment without the bank's
agreement, the sender, whether or not cancellation or amendment is effective, is liable to the bank for any loss
and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees, incurred by the bank as a result of the cancellation or
amendment or attempted cancellation or amendment.
(7) A payment order is not revoked by the death or legal incapacity of the sender unless the receiving bank
knows of the death or of an adjudication of incapacity by a court of competent jurisdiction and has reasonable
opportunity to act before acceptance of the order.
(8) A funds-transfer system rule is not effective to the extent it conflicts with subsection (3)(b).

History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.

440.4712 Receiving bank; failure to accept payment order; liability for breach of agreement
to accept payment order.
Sec. 4A212. If a receiving bank fails to accept a payment order that it is obliged by express agreement to
accept, the bank is liable for breach of the agreement to the extent provided in the agreement or in this article,
but does not otherwise have any duty to accept a payment order or, before acceptance, to take any action, or
refrain from taking action, with respect to the order except as provided in this article or by express agreement.
Liability based on acceptance arises only when acceptance occurs as stated in section 4A209, and liability is
limited to that provided in this article. A receiving bank is not the agent of the sender or beneficiary of the
payment order it accepts, or of any other party to the funds transfer, and the bank owes no duty to any party to
the funds transfer except as provided in this article or by express agreement.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
PART 3

EXECUTION OF SENDER'S PAYMENT ORDER BY RECEIVING BANK

440.4801 Execution of payment order; “execution date” defined.
Sec. 4A301. (1) A payment order is “executed” by the receiving bank when it issues a payment order
intended to carry out the payment order received by the bank. A payment order received by the beneficiary's
bank can be accepted but cannot be executed.
(2) “Execution date” of a payment order means the day on which the receiving bank may properly issue a
payment order in execution of the sender's order. The execution date may be determined by instruction of the
sender but cannot be earlier than the day the order is received and, unless otherwise determined, is the day the
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 102 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
order is received. If the sender's instruction states a payment date, the execution date is the payment date or an
earlier date on which execution is reasonably necessary to allow payment to the beneficiary on the payment
date.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4802 Receiving bank; acceptance of payment order pursuant to MCL 440.4709(1);
obligations of bank to execute order; use of funds-transfer system; transmission by
first-class mail or reasonable means; payment of charges for services and expenses.
Sec. 4A302. (1) Except as provided in subsections (2) through (4), if the receiving bank accepts a payment
order pursuant to section 4A209(1), the bank has the following obligations in executing the order:
(a) The receiving bank is obliged to issue, on the execution date, a payment order complying with the
sender's order and to follow the sender's instructions concerning any intermediary bank or funds-transfer
system to be used in carrying out the funds transfer, or the means by which payment orders are to be
transmitted in the funds transfer. If the originator's bank issues a payment order to an intermediary bank, the
originator's bank is obliged to instruct the intermediary bank according to the instruction of the originator. An
intermediary bank in the funds transfer is similarly bound by an instruction given to it by the sender of the
payment order it accepts.
(b) If the sender's instruction states that the funds transfer is to be carried out telephonically or by wire
transfer or otherwise indicates that the funds transfer is to be carried out by the most expeditious means, the
receiving bank is obliged to transmit its payment order by the most expeditious available means, and to
instruct any intermediary bank accordingly. If a sender's instruction states a payment date, the receiving bank
is obliged to transmit its payment order at a time and by means reasonably necessary to allow payment to the
beneficiary on the payment date or as soon thereafter as is feasible.
(2) Unless otherwise instructed, a receiving bank executing a payment order may use any funds-transfer
system if use of that system is reasonable in the circumstances, and issue a payment order to the beneficiary's
bank or to an intermediary bank through which a payment order conforming to the sender's order can
expeditiously be issued to the beneficiary's bank if the receiving bank exercises ordinary care in the selection
of the intermediary bank. A receiving bank is not required to follow an instruction of the sender designating a
funds-transfer system to be used in carrying out the funds transfer if the receiving bank, in good faith,
determines that it is not feasible to follow the instruction or that following the instruction would unduly delay
completion of the funds transfer.
(3) Unless subsection (1)(b) applies or the receiving bank is otherwise instructed, the bank may execute a
payment order by transmitting its payment order by first-class mail or by any means reasonable in the
circumstances. If the receiving bank is instructed to execute the sender's order by transmitting its payment
order by a particular means, the receiving bank may issue its payment order by the means stated or by any
means as expeditious as the means stated.
(4) Unless instructed by the sender, the receiving bank may not obtain payment of its charges for services
and expenses in connection with the execution of the sender's order by issuing a payment order in an amount
equal to the amount of the sender's order less the amount of the charges, and may not instruct a subsequent
receiving bank to obtain payment of its charges in the same manner.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4803 Receiving bank; payment of sender's order pursuant to MCL 440.4902(3); effect of
erroneous payment order; applicability of subsection (2); obligation of sender to pay
payment order; recovery by issuer from beneficiary.
Sec. 4A303. (1) A receiving bank that executes the payment order of the sender by issuing a payment order
in an amount greater than the amount of the sender's order, or issues a payment order in execution of the
sender's order and then issues a duplicate order, is entitled to payment of the amount of the sender's order
under section 4A402(3) if that subsection is otherwise satisfied. The bank is entitled to recover from the
beneficiary of the erroneous order the excess payment received to the extent allowed by the law governing
mistake and restitution.
(2) A receiving bank that executes the payment order of the sender by issuing a payment order in an
amount less than the amount of the sender's order is entitled to payment of the amount of the sender's order
under section 4A402(3) if that subsection is otherwise satisfied and the bank corrects its mistake by issuing an
additional payment order for the benefit of the beneficiary of the sender's order. If the error is not corrected,
the issuer of the erroneous order is entitled to receive or retain payment from the sender of the order it
accepted only to the extent of the amount of the erroneous order. This subsection does not apply if the
receiving bank executes the sender's payment order by issuing a payment order in an amount less than the
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 103 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
amount of the sender's order for the purpose of obtaining payment of its charges for services and expenses
pursuant to instruction of the sender.
(3) If a receiving bank executes the payment order of the sender by issuing a payment order to a
beneficiary different from the beneficiary of the sender's order and the funds transfer is completed on the basis
of that error, the sender of the payment order that was erroneously executed and all previous senders in the
funds transfer are not obliged to pay the payment orders they issued. The issuer of the erroneous order is
entitled to recover from the beneficiary of the order the payment received to the extent allowed by the law
governing mistake and restitution.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4804 Notification from receiving bank of erroneously executed payment order; duties of
sender; obligation to pay interest; recovery by bank prohibited.
Sec. 4A304. If the sender of a payment order that is erroneously executed as stated in section 4A303
receives notification from the receiving bank that the order was executed or that the sender's account was
debited with respect to the order, the sender has a duty to exercise ordinary care to determine, on the basis of
information available to the sender, that the order was erroneously executed and to notify the bank of the
relevant facts within a reasonable time not exceeding 90 days after the notification from the bank was
received by the sender. If the sender fails to perform that duty, the bank is not obliged to pay interest on any
amount refundable to the sender under section 4A402(4) for the period before the bank learns of the execution
error. The bank is not entitled to any recovery from the sender on account of a failure by the sender to
perform the duty stated in this section.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4805 Receiving bank; payment delay; interest; liability to originator for expenses
resulting from improper execution; recovery of damages; failure to execute pursuant to
express agreement; attorney fees; liability of bank under subsections (1) and (2) not varied
by agreement.
Sec. 4A305. (1) If a funds transfer is completed but execution of a payment order by the receiving bank in
breach of section 4A302 results in delay in payment to the beneficiary, the bank is obliged to pay interest to
either the originator or the beneficiary of the funds transfer for the period of delay caused by the improper
execution. Except as provided in subsection (3), additional damages are not recoverable.
(2) If execution of a payment order by a receiving bank in breach of section 4A302 results in
noncompletion of the funds transfer, failure to use an intermediary bank designated by the originator, or
issuance of a payment order that does not comply with the terms of the payment order of the originator, the
bank is liable to the originator for its expenses in the funds transfer and for incidental expenses and interest
losses, to the extent not covered by subsection (1), resulting from the improper execution. Except as provided
in subsection (3), additional damages are not recoverable.
(3) In addition to the amounts payable under subsections (1) and (2), damages, including consequential
damages, are recoverable to the extent provided in an express written agreement of the receiving bank.
(4) If a receiving bank fails to execute a payment order it was obliged by express agreement to execute, the
receiving bank is liable to the sender for its expenses in the transaction and for incidental expenses and
interest losses resulting from the failure to execute. Additional damages, including consequential damages,
are recoverable to the extent provided in an express written agreement of the receiving bank, but are not
otherwise recoverable.
(5) Reasonable attorney's fees are recoverable if demand for compensation under subsection (1) or (2) is
made and refused before an action is brought on the claim. If a claim is made for breach of an agreement
under subsection (4) and the agreement does not provide for damages, reasonable attorney's fees are
recoverable if demand for compensation under subsection (4) is made and refused before an action is brought
on the claim.
(6) Except as stated in this section, the liability of a receiving bank under subsections (1) and (2) may not
be varied by agreement.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
PART 4

PAYMENT

440.4901 “Payment date” defined.
Sec. 4A401. “Payment date” of a payment order means the day on which the amount of the order is
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 104 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
payable to the beneficiary by the beneficiary's bank. The payment date may be determined by instruction of
the sender but cannot be earlier than the day the order is received by the beneficiary's bank and, unless
otherwise determined, is the day the order is received by the beneficiary's bank.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4902 Payment order issued to beneficiary or receiving bank subject to MCL 440.4705 and
440.4707; payment by sender; refund; right of sender executing payment order to receive
or retain payment; right of sender to be excused from obligation to pay or receive refund
not varied by agreement.
Sec. 4A402. (1) This section is subject to sections 4A205 and 4A207.
(2) With respect to a payment order issued to the beneficiary's bank, acceptance of the order by the bank
obliges the sender to pay the bank the amount of the order, but payment is not due until the payment date of
the order.
(3) This subsection is subject to subsection (5) and to section 4A303. With respect to a payment order
issued to a receiving bank other than the beneficiary's bank, acceptance of the order by the receiving bank
obliges the sender to pay the bank the amount of the sender's order. Payment by the sender is not due until the
execution date of the sender's order. The obligation of that sender to pay its payment order is excused if the
funds transfer is not completed by acceptance by the beneficiary's bank of a payment order instructing
payment to the beneficiary of that sender's payment order.
(4) If the sender of a payment order pays the order and was not obliged to pay all or part of the amount
paid, the bank receiving payment is obliged to refund payment to the extent the sender was not obliged to pay.
Except as provided in sections 4A204 and 4A304, interest is payable on the refundable amount from the date
of payment.
(5) If a funds transfer is not completed as stated in subsection (3) and an intermediary bank is obliged to
refund payment as stated in subsection (4) but is unable to do so because not permitted by applicable law or
because the bank suspends payments, a sender in the funds transfer that executed a payment order in
compliance with an instruction, as stated in section 4A302(1)(a), to route the funds transfer through that
intermediary bank is entitled to receive or retain payment from the sender of the payment order that it
accepted. The first sender in the funds transfer that issued an instruction requiring routing through that
intermediary bank is subrogated to the right of the bank that paid the intermediary bank to refund as stated in
subsection (4).
(6) The right of the sender of a payment order to be excused from the obligation to pay the order as stated
in subsection (3) or to receive refund under subsection (4) may not be varied by agreement.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4903 Sender's obligation under MCL 440.4902 to pay receiving bank; payment
requirements; final settlement; satisfaction of sender's payment obligation.
Sec. 4A403. (1) Payment of the sender's obligation under section 4A402 to pay the receiving bank occurs
as follows:
(a) If the sender is a bank, payment occurs when the receiving bank receives final settlement of the
obligation through a federal reserve bank or through a funds-transfer system.
(b) If the sender is a bank and the sender (i) credited an account of the receiving bank with the sender, or (
ii) caused an account of the receiving bank in another bank to be credited, payment occurs when the credit is
withdrawn or, if not withdrawn, at midnight of the day on which the credit is withdrawable and the receiving
bank learns of that fact.
(c) If the receiving bank debits an account of the sender with the receiving bank, payment occurs when the
debit is made to the extent the debit is covered by a withdrawable credit balance in the account.
(2) If the sender and receiving bank are members of a funds-transfer system that nets obligations
multilaterally among participants, the receiving bank receives final settlement when settlement is complete in
accordance with the rules of the system. The obligation of the sender to pay the amount of a payment order
transmitted through the funds-transfer system may be satisfied, to the extent permitted by the rules of the
system, by setting off and applying against the sender's obligation the right of the sender to receive payment
from the receiving bank of the amount of any other payment order transmitted to the sender by the receiving
bank through the funds-transfer system. The aggregate balance of obligations owed by each sender to each
receiving bank in the funds-transfer system may be satisfied, to the extent permitted by the rules of the
system, by setting off and applying against that balance the aggregate balance of obligations owed to the
sender by other members of the system. The aggregate balance is determined after the right of setoff stated in
the second sentence of this subsection has been exercised.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 105 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
(3) If 2 banks transmit payment orders to each other under an agreement that settlement of the obligations
of each bank to the other under section 4A402 will be made at the end of the day or other period, the total
amount owed with respect to all orders transmitted by 1 bank shall be set off against the total amount owed
with respect to all orders transmitted by the other bank. To the extent of the setoff, each bank has made
payment to the other.
(4) In a case not covered by subsection (1), the time when payment of the sender's obligation under section
4A402(2) or (3) occurs is governed by applicable principles of law that determine when an obligation is
satisfied.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4904 Beneficiary bank; acceptance of payment order subject to MCL 440.4711(5),
440.4905(4), and 440.4905(5); payment due date; refusal of bank to pay after demand;
recovery of damages; instruction to pay to beneficiary's account; notice; interest; attorney
fees; rights of beneficiary pursuant to agreement or funds-transfer system rule.
Sec. 4A404. (1) Subject to sections 4A211(5), 4A405(4), and 4A405(5), if a beneficiary's bank accepts a
payment order, the bank is obliged to pay the amount of the order to the beneficiary of the order. Payment is
due on the payment date of the order, but if acceptance occurs on the payment date after the close of the
funds-transfer business day of the bank, payment is due on the next funds-transfer business day. If the bank
refuses to pay after demand by the beneficiary and receipt of notice of particular circumstances that will give
rise to consequential damages as a result of nonpayment, the beneficiary may recover damages resulting from
the refusal to pay to the extent the bank had notice of the damages, unless the bank proves that it did not pay
because of a reasonable doubt concerning the right of the beneficiary to payment.
(2) If a payment order accepted by the beneficiary's bank instructs payment to an account of the
beneficiary, the bank is obliged to notify the beneficiary of receipt of the order before midnight of the next
funds-transfer business day following the payment date. If the payment order does not instruct payment to an
account of the beneficiary, the bank is required to notify the beneficiary only if notice is required by the order.
Notice may be given by first-class mail or any other means reasonable in the circumstances. If the bank fails
to give the required notice, the bank is obliged to pay interest to the beneficiary on the amount of the payment
order from the day notice should have been given until the day the beneficiary learned of receipt of the
payment order by the bank. No other damages are recoverable. Reasonable attorney's fees are also recoverable
if demand for interest is made and refused before an action is brought on the claim.
(3) The right of a beneficiary to receive payment and damages as stated in subsection (1) may not be varied
by agreement or a funds-transfer system rule. The right of a beneficiary to be notified as stated in subsection
(2) may be varied by agreement of the beneficiary or by a funds-transfer system rule if the beneficiary is
notified of the rule before initiation of the funds transfer.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4905 Beneficiary bank; crediting account of beneficiary of payment order; payment of
bank obligations under MCL 440.4904(1); time of payment; condition to payment or
agreement; provisional payments to beneficiary under funds-transfer system rule; refund;
applicability of subsection (5) to certain funds transfer.
Sec. 4A405. (1) If the beneficiary's bank credits an account of the beneficiary of a payment order, payment
of the bank's obligation under section 4A404(1) occurs when and to the extent (i) the beneficiary is notified of
the right to withdraw the credit, (ii) the bank lawfully applies the credit to a debt of the beneficiary, or (iii)
funds with respect to the order are otherwise made available to the beneficiary by the bank.
(2) If the beneficiary's bank does not credit an account of the beneficiary of a payment order, the time
when payment of the bank's obligation under section 4A404(1) occurs is governed by principles of law that
determine when an obligation is satisfied.
(3) Except as stated in subsections (4) and (5), if the beneficiary's bank pays the beneficiary of a payment
order under a condition to payment or agreement of the beneficiary giving the bank the right to recover
payment from the beneficiary if the bank does not receive payment of the order, the condition to payment or
agreement is not enforceable.
(4) A funds-transfer system rule may provide that payments made to beneficiaries of funds transfers made
through the system are provisional until receipt of payment by the beneficiary's bank of the payment order is
accepted. A beneficiary's bank that makes a payment that is provisional under the rule is entitled to refund
from the beneficiary if (i) the rule requires that both the beneficiary and the originator be given notice of the
provisional nature of the payment before the funds transfer is initiated, (ii) the beneficiary, the beneficiary's
bank, and the originator's bank agreed to be bound by the rule, and (iii) the beneficiary's bank did not receive
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 106 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
payment of the payment order that it accepted. If the beneficiary is obliged to refund payment to the
beneficiary's bank, acceptance of the payment order by the beneficiary's bank is nullified and no payment by
the originator of the funds transfer to the beneficiary occurs under section 4A406.
(5) This subsection applies to the funds transfer that includes a payment order transmitted over a
funds-transfer system that (i) nets obligations multilaterally among participants, and (ii) has in effect a
loss-sharing agreement among participants for the purpose of providing funds necessary to complete
settlement of the obligations of 1 or more participants that do not meet their settlement obligations. If the
beneficiary's bank in the funds transfer accepts a payment order and the system fails to complete settlement
pursuant to its rules with respect to any payment order in the funds transfer, (i) the acceptance by the
beneficiary's bank is nullified and no person has any right or obligation based on the acceptance, (ii) the
beneficiary's bank is entitled to recover payment from the beneficiary, (iii) no payment by the originator to the
beneficiary occurs under section 4A406, and (iv) subject to section 4A402(5), each sender in the funds
transfer is excused from its obligation to pay its payment order under section 4A402(3) because the funds
transfer has not been completed.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4906 Originator of funds transfer; conditions for payment to beneficiary; satisfaction and
discharge of obligation; determination; rights varied by agreement.
Sec. 4A406. (1) Subject to sections 4A211(5), 4A405(4), and 4A405(5), the originator of a funds transfer
pays the beneficiary of the originator's payment order (i) at the time a payment order for the benefit of the
beneficiary is accepted by the beneficiary's bank in the funds transfer and (ii) in an amount equal to the
amount of the order accepted by the beneficiary's bank, but not more than the amount of the originator's order.
(2) If payment under subsection (1) is made to satisfy an obligation, the obligation is discharged to the
same extent discharge would result from payment to the beneficiary of the same amount in money, unless (i)
the payment under subsection (1) was made by a means prohibited by the contract of the beneficiary with
respect to the obligation, (ii) the beneficiary, within a reasonable time after receiving notice of receipt of the
order by the beneficiary's bank, notified the originator of the beneficiary's refusal of the payment, (iii) funds
with respect to the order were not withdrawn by the beneficiary or applied to a debt of the beneficiary, and (iv
) the beneficiary would suffer a loss that could reasonably have been avoided if payment had been made by a
means complying with the contract. If payment by the originator does not result in discharge under this
section, the originator is subrogated to the rights of the beneficiary to receive payment from the beneficiary's
bank under section 4A404(1).
(3) For the purpose of determining whether discharge of an obligation occurs under subsection (2), if the
beneficiary's bank accepts a payment order in an amount equal to the amount of the originator's payment
order less charges of 1 or more receiving banks in the funds transfer, payment to the beneficiary is deemed to
be in the amount of the originator's order unless upon demand by the beneficiary the originator does not pay
the beneficiary the amount of the deducted charges.
(4) Rights of the originator or of the beneficiary of a funds transfer under this section may be varied only
by agreement of the originator and the beneficiary.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
PART 5

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

440.4951 Rights and obligations of party to funds transfer varied by agreement of affected
party; “funds-transfer system rule” defined.
Sec. 4A501. (1) Except as otherwise provided in this article, the rights and obligations of a party to a funds
transfer may be varied by agreement of the affected party.
(2) “Funds-transfer system rule” means a rule of an association of banks (i) governing transmission of
payment orders by means of a funds-transfer system of the association or rights and obligations with respect
to those orders, or (ii) to the extent the rule governs rights and obligations between banks that are parties to a
funds transfer in which a federal reserve bank, acting as an intermediary bank, sends a payment order to the
beneficiary's bank. Except as otherwise provided in this article, a funds-transfer system rule governing rights
and obligations between participating banks using the system may be effective even if the rule conflicts with
this article and indirectly affects another party to the funds transfer who does not consent to the rule. A
funds-transfer system rule may also govern rights and obligations of parties other than participating banks
using the system to the extent stated in sections 4A404(3), 4A405(4), and 4A507(3).
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 107 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
440.4952 “Creditor process” defined and explained.
Sec. 4A502. (1) As used in this section, “creditor process” means levy, attachment, garnishment, notice of
lien, sequestration, or similar process issued by or on behalf of a creditor or other claimant with respect to an
account.
(2) This subsection applies to creditor process with respect to an authorized account of the sender of a
payment order if the creditor process is served on the receiving bank. For the purpose of determining rights
with respect to the creditor process, if the receiving bank accepts that payment order the balance in the
authorized account is deemed to be reduced by the amount of the payment order to the extent the bank did not
otherwise receive payment of the order, unless the creditor process is served at a time and in a manner
affording the bank a reasonable opportunity to act on it before the bank accepts the payment order.
(3) If a beneficiary's bank has received a payment order for payment to the beneficiary's account in the
bank, the following rules apply:
(a) The bank may credit the beneficiary's account. The amount credited may be set off against an
obligation owed by the beneficiary to the bank or may be applied to satisfy creditor process served on the
bank with respect to the account.
(b) The bank may credit the beneficiary's account and allow withdrawal of the amount credited unless
creditor process with respect to the account is served at a time and in a manner affording the bank a
reasonable opportunity to act to prevent withdrawal.
(c) If creditor process with respect to the beneficiary's account has been served and the bank has had a
reasonable opportunity to act on it, the bank may not reject the payment order except for a reason unrelated to
the service of process.
(4) Creditor process with respect to a payment by the originator to the beneficiary pursuant to a funds
transfer may be served only on the beneficiary's bank with respect to the debt owed by that bank to the
beneficiary. Any other bank served with the creditor process is not obliged to act with respect to the process.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4953 Powers of court with respect to funds transfer.
Sec. 4A503. For proper cause and in compliance with applicable law, a court may restrain (i) a person
from issuing a payment order to initiate a funds transfer, (ii) an originator's bank from executing the payment
order of the originator, or (iii) the beneficiary's bank from releasing funds to the beneficiary or the beneficiary
from withdrawing the funds. A court may not otherwise restrain a person from issuing a payment order,
paying or receiving payment of a payment order, or otherwise acting with respect to a funds transfer.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4954 Receiving bank; authority to charge sender's account; credits.
Sec. 4A504. (1) If a receiving bank has received more than 1 payment order of the sender or 1 or more
payment orders and other items that are payable from the sender's account, the bank may charge the sender's
account with respect to the various orders and items in any sequence.
(2) In determining whether a credit to an account has been withdrawn by the holder of the account or
applied to a debt of the holder of the account, credits first made to the account are first withdrawn or applied.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4955 Customer objection to payment; notification required.
Sec. 4A505. If a receiving bank has received payment from its customer with respect to a payment order
issued in the name of the customer as sender and accepted by the bank, and the customer received notification
reasonably identifying the order, the customer is precluded from asserting that the bank is not entitled to
retain the payment unless the customer notifies the bank of the customer's objection to the payment within 1
year after the notification was received by the customer.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4956 Receiving bank; determination of interest payable.
Sec. 4A506. (1) If, under this article, a receiving bank is obliged to pay interest with respect to a payment
order issued to the bank, the amount payable may be determined (i) by agreement of the sender and receiving
bank, or (ii) by a funds-transfer system rule if the payment order is transmitted through a funds-transfer
system.
(2) If the amount of interest is not determined by an agreement or rule as stated in subsection (1), the
amount is calculated by multiplying the applicable federal funds rate by the amount on which interest is
payable, and then multiplying the product by the number of days for which interest is payable. The applicable
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 108 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
federal funds rate is the average of the federal funds rates published by the federal reserve bank of New York
for each of the days for which interest is payable divided by 360. The federal funds rate for any day on which
a published rate is not available is the same as the published rate for the next preceding day for which there is
a published rate. If a receiving bank that accepted a payment order is required to refund payment to the sender
of the order because the funds transfer was not completed, but the failure to complete was not due to any fault
by the bank, the interest payable is reduced by a percentage equal to the reserve requirement on deposits of
the receiving bank.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992.
440.4957 Rights and obligations of parties; application of choice of law.
Sec. 4A507. (1) The following rules apply unless the affected parties otherwise agree or subsection (3)
applies:
(a) The rights and obligations between the sender of a payment order and the receiving bank are governed
by the law of the jurisdiction in which the receiving bank is located.
(b) The rights and obligations between the beneficiary's bank and the beneficiary are governed by the law
of the jurisdiction in which the beneficiary's bank is located.
(c) The issue of when payment is made pursuant to a funds transfer by the originator to the beneficiary is
governed by the law of the jurisdiction in which the beneficiary's bank is located.
(2) If the parties described in each subdivision of subsection (1) have made an agreement selecting the law
of a particular jurisdiction to govern rights and obligations between each other, the law of that jurisdiction
governs those rights and obligations, whether or not the payment order or the funds transfer bears a
reasonable relation to that jurisdiction.
(3) A funds-transfer system rule may select the law of a particular jurisdiction to govern (i) rights and
obligations between participating banks with respect to payment orders transmitted or processed through the
system, or (ii) the rights and obligations of some or all parties to a funds transfer any part of which is carried
out by means of the system. A choice of law made pursuant to clause (i) is binding on participating banks. A
choice of law made pursuant to clause (ii) is binding on the originator, other sender, or a receiving bank
having notice that the funds-transfer system might be used in the funds transfer and of the choice of law by
the system when the originator, other sender, or receiving bank issued or accepted a payment order. The
beneficiary of a funds transfer is bound by the choice of law if, when the funds transfer is initiated, the
beneficiary has notice that the funds-transfer system might be used in the funds transfer and of the choice of
law by the system. The law of a jurisdiction selected pursuant to this subsection may govern, whether or not
that law bears a reasonable relation to the matter in issue.
(4) In the event of inconsistency between an agreement under subsection (2) and a choice-of-law rule
under subsection (3), the agreement under subsection (2) prevails.
(5) If a funds transfer is made by use of more than 1 funds-transfer system and there is inconsistency
between choice-of-law rules of the systems, the matter in issue is governed by the law of the selected
jurisdiction that has the most significant relationship to the matter in issue.
History: Add. 1992, Act 100, Imd. Eff. June 25, 1992. 