ARTICLE 9

SECURED TRANSACTIONS

PART 1

GENERAL PROVISIONS

SUBPART 1.

SHORT TITLE, DEFINITIONS, AND GENERAL CONCEPTS

440.9101 Uniform commercial code—secured transactions; short title.
Sec. 9101. This article shall be known and may be cited as “uniform commercial code—secured
transactions”.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964.
440.9102 Definitions and index of definitions.
Sec. 9102. (1) As used in this article:
(a) "Accession" means goods that are physically united with other goods in such a manner that the identity
of the original goods is not lost.
(b) "Account", except as used in "account for", means a right to payment of a monetary obligation, whether
or not earned by performance, for property that has been or is to be sold, leased, licensed, assigned, or
otherwise disposed of, for services rendered or to be rendered, for a policy of insurance issued or to be issued,
for a secondary obligation incurred or to be incurred, for energy provided or to be provided, for the use or hire
of a vessel under a charter or other contract, arising out of the use of a credit or charge card or information
contained on or for use with the card, or as winnings in a lottery or other game of chance operated or
sponsored by a state, governmental unit of a state, or person licensed or authorized to operate the game by a
state or governmental unit of a state. The term includes health-care-insurance receivables. The term does not
include rights to payment evidenced by chattel paper or an instrument, commercial tort claims, deposit
accounts, investment property, letter-of-credit rights or letters of credit, or rights to payment for money or
funds advanced or sold, other than rights arising out of the use of a credit or charge card or information
contained on or for use with the card.
(c) "Account debtor" means a person obligated on an account, chattel paper, or general intangible. The
term does not include persons obligated to pay a negotiable instrument, even if the instrument constitutes part
of chattel paper.
(d) "Accounting", except as used in "accounting for", means a record that meets all of the following
requirements:
(i) Authenticated by a secured party.
(ii) Indicating the aggregate unpaid secured obligations as of a date not more than 35 days earlier or 35
days later than the date of the record.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 146 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
(iii) Identifying the components of the obligations in reasonable detail.
(e) "Agricultural lien" means an interest, other than a security interest, in farm products that meets all of
the following requirements:
(i) The interest secures payment or performance of an obligation for 1 or more of the following:
(A) Goods or services furnished in connection with a debtor's farming operation.
(B) Rent on real property leased by a debtor in connection with its farming operation.
(ii) The interest is created by statute in favor of a person that did 1 or more of the following:
(A) In the ordinary course of its business furnished goods or services to a debtor in connection with a
debtor's farming operation.
(B) Leased real property to a debtor in connection with the debtor's farming operation.
(iii) The effectiveness of the interest does not depend on the person's possession of the personal property.
(f) "As-extracted collateral" means 1 or more of the following:
(i) Oil, gas, or other minerals that are subject to a security interest that is created by a debtor having an
interest in the minerals before extraction and attaches to the minerals as extracted.
(ii) Accounts arising out of the sale at the wellhead or minehead of oil, gas, or other minerals in which the
debtor had an interest before extraction.
(g) "Authenticate" means either of the following:
(i) To sign.
(ii) With present intent to adopt or accept a record, to attach to or logically associate with the record an
electronic sound, symbol, or process.
(h) "Bank" means an organization that is engaged in the business of banking. The term includes savings
banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, and trust companies.
(i) "Cash proceeds" means proceeds that are money, checks, deposit accounts, or the like.
(j) "Certificate of title" means a certificate of title with respect to which a statute provides for the security
interest in question to be indicated on the certificate as a condition or result of the security interest's obtaining
priority over the rights of a lien creditor with respect to the collateral. The term includes another record
maintained as an alternative to a certificate of title by the governmental unit that issues certificates of title if a
statute permits the security interest in question to be indicated on the record as a condition or result of the
security interest's obtaining priority over the rights of a lien creditor with respect to the collateral.
(k) "Chattel paper" means a record or records that evidence both a monetary obligation and a security
interest in specific goods, a security interest in specific goods and software used in the goods, a security
interest in specific goods and license of software used in the goods, a lease of specific goods, or a lease of
specific goods and license of software used in the goods. As used in this subdivision, "monetary obligation"
means a monetary obligation secured by the goods or owed under a lease of the goods and includes a
monetary obligation with respect to software used in the goods. The term does not include charters or other
contracts involving the use or hire of a vessel, or records that evidence a right to payment arising out of the
use of a credit or charge card or information contained on or for use with the card. If a transaction is
evidenced by records that include an instrument or series of instruments, the group of records taken together
constitutes chattel paper.
(l) "Collateral" means the property subject to a security interest or agricultural lien. The term includes 1 or
more of the following:
(i) Proceeds to which a security interest attaches.
(ii) Accounts, chattel paper, payment intangibles, and promissory notes that have been sold.
(iii) Goods that are the subject of a consignment.
(m) "Commercial tort claim" means a claim arising in tort with respect to which of the following applies:
(i) The claimant is an organization.
(ii) The claimant is an individual and the claim arose in the course of the claimant's business or profession
and does not include damages arising out of personal injury to or the death of an individual.
(n) "Commodity account" means an account maintained by a commodity intermediary in which a
commodity contract is carried for a commodity customer.
(o) "Commodity contract" means a commodity futures contract, an option on a commodity futures
contract, a commodity option, or another contract if the contract or option is 1 of the following:
(i) Traded on or subject to the rules of a board of trade that has been designated as a contract market for
such a contract pursuant to federal commodities laws.
(ii) Traded on a foreign commodity board of trade, exchange, or market, and is carried on the books of a
commodity intermediary for a commodity customer.
(p) "Commodity customer" means a person for which a commodity intermediary carries a commodity
contract on its books.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 147 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
(q) "Commodity intermediary" means 1 of the following:
(i) A person that is registered as a futures commission merchant under federal commodities law.
(ii) A person that in the ordinary course of its business provides clearance or settlement services for a
board of trade that has been designated as a contract market pursuant to federal commodities law.
(r) "Communicate" means 1 or more of the following:
(i) To send a written or other tangible record.
(ii) To transmit a record by any means agreed upon by the persons sending and receiving the record.
(iii) In the case of transmission of a record to or by a filing office, to transmit a record by any means
prescribed by filing-office rule.
(s) "Consignee" means a merchant to which goods are delivered in a consignment.
(t) "Consignment" means a transaction, regardless of its form, in which a person delivers goods to a
merchant for the purpose of sale and that meets all of the following:
(i) The merchant deals in goods of that kind under a name other than the name of the person making
delivery, is not an auctioneer, and is not generally known by its creditors to be substantially engaged in selling
the goods of others.
(ii) With respect to each delivery, the aggregate value of the goods is $1,000.00 or more at the time of
delivery.
(iii) The goods are not consumer goods immediately before delivery.
(iv) The transaction does not create a security interest that secures an obligation.
(u) "Consignor" means a person that delivers goods to a consignee in a consignment.
(v) "Consumer debtor" means a debtor in a consumer transaction.
(w) "Consumer goods" means goods that are used or bought for use primarily for personal, family, or
household purposes.
(x) "Consumer-goods transaction" means a consumer transaction in which an individual incurs an
obligation primarily for personal, family, or household purposes and a security interest in consumer goods
secures the obligation.
(y) "Consumer obligor" means an obligor who is an individual and who incurred the obligation as part of a
transaction entered into primarily for personal, family, or household purposes.
(z) "Consumer transaction" means a transaction in which an individual incurs an obligation primarily for
personal, family, or household purposes, a security interest secures the obligation, and the collateral is held or
acquired primarily for personal, family, or household purposes. The term includes consumer-goods
transactions.
(aa) "Continuation statement" means an amendment of a financing statement which identifies, by its file
number, the initial financing statement to which it relates and indicates that it is a continuation statement for,
or that it is filed to continue the effectiveness of, the identified financing statement.
(bb) "Debtor" means 1 of the following:
(i) A person having an interest, other than a security interest or other lien, in the collateral, whether or not
the person is an obligor.
(ii) A seller of accounts, chattel paper, payment intangibles, or promissory notes.
(iii) A consignee.
(cc) "Deposit account" means a demand, time, savings, passbook, or similar account maintained with a
bank. The term does not include investment property or accounts evidenced by an instrument.
(dd) "Document" means a document of title or a receipt of the type described in section 7201(2).
(ee) "Electronic chattel paper" means chattel paper evidenced by a record or records consisting of
information stored in an electronic medium.
(ff) "Encumbrance" means a right, other than an ownership interest, in real property. The term includes
mortgages and other liens on real property.
(gg) "Equipment" means goods other than inventory, farm products, or consumer goods.
(hh) "Farm products" means goods, other than standing timber, with respect to which the debtor is engaged
in a farming operation and which are 1 of the following:
(i) Crops grown, growing, or to be grown, including crops produced on trees, vines, and bushes, and
aquatic goods produced in aquacultural operations.
(ii) Livestock, born or unborn, including aquatic goods produced in aquacultural operations.
(iii) Supplies used or produced in a farming operation.
(iv) Products of crops or livestock in their unmanufactured states.
(ii) "Farming operation" means raising, cultivating, propagating, fattening, grazing, or any other farming,
livestock, or aquacultural operation.
(jj) "File number" means the number assigned to an initial financing statement pursuant to section 9519(1).
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 148 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
(kk) "Filing office" means an office designated in section 9501 as the place to file a financing statement.
(ll) "Filing-office rule" means a rule adopted pursuant to section 9526.
(mm) "Financing statement" means a record or records composed of an initial financing statement and any
filed record relating to the initial financing statement.
(nn) "Fixture filing" means the filing of a financing statement covering goods that are or are to become
fixtures and satisfying section 9502(1) and (2). The term includes the filing of a financing statement covering
goods of a transmitting utility which are or are to become fixtures.
(oo) "Fixtures" means goods that have become so related to particular real property that an interest in them
arises under real property law.
(pp) "General intangible" means any personal property, including things in action, other than accounts,
chattel paper, commercial tort claims, deposit accounts, documents, goods, instruments, investment property,
letter-of-credit rights, letters of credit, money, and oil, gas, or other minerals before extraction. The term
includes payment intangibles and software.
(qq) "Goods" means all things that are movable when a security interest attaches. The term includes
fixtures, standing timber that is to be cut and removed under a conveyance or contract for sale, the unborn
young of animals, crops grown, growing, or to be grown, even if the crops are produced on trees, vines, or
bushes, and manufactured homes. The term also includes a computer program embedded in goods and any
supporting information provided in connection with a transaction relating to the program if the program is
associated with the goods in such a manner that it customarily is considered part of the goods, or by becoming
the owner of the goods, a person acquires a right to use the program in connection with the goods. The term
does not include a computer program embedded in goods that consist solely of the medium in which the
program is embedded. The term also does not include accounts, chattel paper, commercial tort claims, deposit
accounts, documents, general intangibles, instruments, investment property, letter-of-credit rights, letters of
credit, money, or oil, gas, or other minerals before extraction.
(rr) "Governmental unit" means a subdivision, agency, department, county, parish, municipality, or other
unit of the government of the United States, a state, or a foreign country. The term includes an organization
having a separate corporate existence if the organization is eligible to issue debt on which interest is exempt
from income taxation under the laws of the United States.
(ss) "Health-care-insurance receivable" means an interest in or claim under a policy of insurance which is a
right to payment of a monetary obligation for health-care goods or services provided.
(tt) "Instrument" means a negotiable instrument or any other writing that evidences a right to the payment
of a monetary obligation, is not itself a security agreement or lease, and is of a type that in ordinary course of
business is transferred by delivery with any necessary indorsement or assignment. The term does not include
investment property, letters of credit, or writings that evidence a right to payment arising out of the use of a
credit or charge card or information contained on or for use with the card.
(uu) "Inventory" means goods, other than farm products, that meet 1 of the following:
(i) Are leased by a person as lessor.
(ii) Are held by a person for sale or lease or to be furnished under a contract of service.
(iii) Are furnished by a person under a contract of service.
(iv) Consist of raw materials, work in process, or materials used or consumed in a business.
(vv) "Investment property" means a security, whether certificated or uncertificated, security entitlement,
securities account, commodity contract, or commodity account.
(ww) "Jurisdiction of organization", with respect to a registered organization, means the jurisdiction under
whose law the organization is formed or organized.
(xx) "Letter-of-credit right" means a right to payment or performance under a letter of credit, whether or
not the beneficiary has demanded or is at the time entitled to demand payment or performance. The term does
not include the right of a beneficiary to demand payment or performance under a letter of credit.
(yy) "Lien creditor" means 1 or more of the following:
(i) A creditor that has acquired a lien on the property involved by attachment, levy, or the like.
(ii) An assignee for benefit of creditors from the time of assignment.
(iii) A trustee in bankruptcy from the date of the filing of the petition.
(iv) A receiver in equity from the time of appointment.
(zz) "Manufactured home" means a structure, transportable in 1 or more sections, which, in the traveling
mode, is 8 body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is 320 or
more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating,
air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein. The term includes any structure that meets all of the
requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 149 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of the department of housing and urban development
and complies with the standards established under title 42 of the United States Code.
(aaa) "Manufactured-home transaction" means a secured transaction that creates a purchase-money
security interest in a manufactured home, other than a manufactured home held as inventory, or in which a
manufactured home, other than a manufactured home held as inventory, is the primary collateral.
(bbb) "Mortgage" means a consensual interest in real property, including fixtures, which secures payment
or performance of an obligation.
(ccc) "New debtor" means a person that becomes bound as debtor under section 9203(4) by a security
agreement previously entered into by another person.
(ddd) "New value" means money, money's worth in property, services, or new credit, or release by a
transferee of an interest in property previously transferred to the transferee. The term does not include an
obligation substituted for another obligation.
(eee) "Noncash proceeds" means proceeds other than cash proceeds.
(fff) "Obligor" means a person that, with respect to an obligation secured by a security interest in or an
agricultural lien on the collateral, owes payment or other performance of the obligation, has provided property
other than the collateral to secure payment or other performance of the obligation, or is otherwise accountable
in whole or in part for payment or other performance of the obligation. The term does not include issuers or
nominated persons under a letter of credit.
(ggg) "Original debtor" means, except as used in section 9310(3), a person that, as debtor, entered into a
security agreement to which a new debtor has become bound under section 9203(4).
(hhh) "Payment intangible" means a general intangible under which the account debtor's principal
obligation is a monetary obligation.
(iii) "Person related to", with respect to an individual, means 1 or more of the following:
(i) The spouse of the individual.
(ii) A brother, brother-in-law, sister, or sister-in-law of the individual.
(iii) An ancestor or lineal descendant of the individual or the individual's spouse.
(iv) Any other relative, by blood or marriage, of the individual or the individual's spouse who shares the
same home with the individual.
(jjj) "Person related to", with respect to an organization, means 1 or more of the following:
(i) A person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the
organization.
(ii) An officer or director of, or a person performing similar functions with respect to, the organization.
(iii) An officer or director of, or a person performing similar functions with respect to, a person described
in subparagraph (i).
(iv) The spouse of an individual described in subparagraph (i), (ii), or (iii).
(v) An individual who is related by blood or marriage to an individual described in subparagraph (i), (ii), (
iii), or (iv) and shares the same home with the individual.
(kkk) "Proceeds" means, except as used in section 9609(2), 1 or more of the following property:
(i) Whatever is acquired upon the sale, lease, license, exchange, or other disposition of collateral.
(ii) Whatever is collected on, or distributed on account of, collateral.
(iii) Rights arising out of collateral.
(iv) To the extent of the value of collateral, claims arising out of the loss, nonconformity, or interference
with the use of, defects or infringement of rights in, or damage to, the collateral.
(v) To the extent of the value of collateral and to the extent payable to the debtor or the secured party,
insurance payable by reason of the loss or nonconformity of, defects or infringement of rights in, or damage
to, the collateral.
(lll) "Promissory note" means an instrument that evidences a promise to pay a monetary obligation, does
not evidence an order to pay, and does not contain an acknowledgment by a bank that the bank has received
for deposit a sum of money or funds.
(mmm) "Proposal" means a record authenticated by a secured party which includes the terms on which the
secured party is willing to accept collateral in full or partial satisfaction of the obligation it secures pursuant to
sections 9620, 9621, and 9622.
(nnn) "Public organic record" means a record that is available to the public for inspection and is any of the
following:
(i) A record consisting of the record initially filed with or issued by a state or the United States to form or
organize an organization and any record filed with or issued by the state or the United States which amends or
restates the initial record.
(ii) An organic record of a business trust consisting of the record initially filed with a state and any record
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 150 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
filed with the state which amends or restates the initial record, if a statute of the state governing business
trusts requires that the record be filed with the state.
(iii) A record consisting of legislation enacted by the legislature of a state or the congress of the United
States which forms or organizes an organization, any record amending the legislation, and any record filed
with or issued by the state or the United States which amends or restates the name of the organization.
(ooo) "Pursuant to commitment", with respect to an advance made or other value given by a secured party,
means pursuant to the secured party's obligation, whether or not a subsequent event of default or other event
not within the secured party's control has relieved or may relieve the secured party from its obligation.
(ppp) "Record", except as used in "for record", "of record", "record or legal title", and "record owner",
means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or which is stored in an electronic or other medium
and is retrievable in perceivable form.
(qqq) "Registered organization" means an organization organized solely under the law of a single state or
the United States by the filing of a public organic record with, the issuance of a public organic record by, or
the enactment of legislation by the state or the United States. The term includes a business trust that is formed
or organized under the law of a single state if a statute of the state governing business trusts requires that the
business trust's organic record be filed with the state.
(rrr) "Secondary obligor" means an obligor to the extent that the obligor's obligation is secondary or the
obligor has a right of recourse with respect to an obligation secured by collateral against the debtor, another
obligor, or property of either.
(sss) "Secured party" means 1 or more of the following:
(i) A person in whose favor a security interest is created or provided for under a security agreement,
whether or not any obligation to be secured is outstanding.
(ii) A person that holds an agricultural lien.
(iii) A consignor.
(iv) A person to which accounts, chattel paper, payment intangibles, or promissory notes have been sold.
(v) A trustee, indenture trustee, agent, collateral agent, or other representative in whose favor a security
interest or agricultural lien is created or provided for.
(vi) A person that holds a security interest arising under section 2401, 2505, 2711(3), 2A508(5), 4210, or
5118.
(ttt) "Security agreement" means an agreement that creates or provides for a security interest.
(uuu) "Send", in connection with a record or notification, means 1 of the following:
(i) To deposit in the mail, deliver for transmission, or transmit by any other usual means of
communication, with postage or cost of transmission provided for, addressed to any address reasonable under
the circumstances.
(ii) To cause the record or notification to be received within the time that it would have been received if
properly sent under subparagraph (i).
(vvv) "Software" means a computer program and any supporting information provided in connection with
a transaction relating to the program. The term does not include a computer program that is included in the
definition of goods.
(www) "State" means a state of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States
Virgin Islands, or any territory or insular possession subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
(xxx) "Supporting obligation" means a letter-of-credit right or secondary obligation that supports the
payment or performance of an account, chattel paper, a document, a general intangible, an instrument, or
investment property.
(yyy) "Tangible chattel paper" means chattel paper evidenced by a record or records consisting of
information that is inscribed on a tangible medium.
(zzz) "Termination statement" means an amendment of a financing statement that identifies, by its file
number, the initial financing statement to which it relates and indicates either that it is a termination statement
or that the identified financing statement is no longer effective.
(aaaa) "Transmitting utility" means a person primarily engaged in the business of 1 of the following:
(i) Operating a railroad, subway, street railway, or trolley bus.
(ii) Transmitting communications electrically, electromagnetically, or by light.
(iii) Transmitting goods by pipeline or sewer.
(iv) Transmitting or producing and transmitting electricity, steam, gas, or water.
(2) "Control" as provided in section 7106 and the following definitions in other articles apply to this
article:
 "Applicant" Section 5102
 "Beneficiary" Section 5102
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 151 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
 "Broker" Section 8102
 "Certificated security" Section 8102
 "Check" Section 3104
 "Clearing corporation" Section 8102
 "Contract for sale" Section 2106
 "Customer" Section 4104
 "Entitlement holder" Section 8102
 "Financial asset" Section 8102
 "Holder in due course" Section 3302
 "Issuer" (with respect to a document
 of title) Section 7102
 "Issuer" (with respect to a letter
 of credit or letter-of-credit right) Section 5102
 "Issuer" (with respect to a security) Section 8201
 "Lease" Section 2A103
 "Lease agreement" Section 2A103
 "Lease contract" Section 2A103
 "Leasehold interest" Section 2A103
 "Lessee" Section 2A103
 "Lessee in ordinary course of business" Section 2A103
 "Lessor" Section 2A103
 "Lessor's residual interest" Section 2A103
 "Letter of credit" Section 5102
 "Merchant" Section 2104
 "Negotiable instrument" Section 3104
 "Nominated person" Section 5102
 "Note" Section 3104
 "Proceeds of a letter of credit" Section 5114
 "Prove" Section 3103
 "Sale" Section 2106
 "Securities account" Section 8501
 "Securities intermediary" Section 8102
 "Security" Section 8102
 "Security certificate" Section 8102
 "Security entitlement" Section 8102
 "Uncertificated security" Section 8102.
(3) Article 1 contains general definitions and principles of construction and interpretation applicable
throughout this article.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1978, Act 369, Eff. Jan. 1, 1979;⎯Am. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001;⎯Am.
2012, Act 87, Eff. July 1, 2013.
Compiler's note: In subsection (1)(m), the words "with respect to which of the following..." evidently should read "with respect to
which 1 of the following... ."
440.9103 Purchase-money security interest; application of payments; burden of establishing.
Sec. 9103. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Purchase-money collateral” means goods or software that secures a purchase-money obligation
incurred with respect to that collateral.
(b) “Purchase-money obligation” means an obligation of an obligor incurred as all or part of the price of
the collateral or for value given to enable the debtor to acquire rights in or the use of the collateral if the value
is in fact so used.
(2) A security interest in goods is a purchase-money security interest to the following extent, as applicable:
(a) To the extent that the goods are purchase-money collateral with respect to that security interest.
(b) If the security interest is in inventory that is or was purchase-money collateral, also to the extent that
the security interest secures a purchase-money obligation incurred with respect to other inventory in which the
secured party holds or held a purchase-money security interest.
(c) Also to the extent that the security interest secures a purchase-money obligation incurred with respect
to software in which the secured party holds or held a purchase-money security interest.
(3) A security interest in software is a purchase-money security interest to the extent that the security
interest also secures a purchase-money obligation incurred with respect to goods in which the secured party
holds or held a purchase-money security interest if the debtor acquired its interest in the software in an
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 152 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
integrated transaction in which it acquired an interest in the goods, and the debtor acquired its interest in the
software for the principal purpose of using the software in the goods.
(4) The security interest of a consignor in goods that are the subject of a consignment is a purchase-money
security interest in inventory.
(5) In a transaction other than a consumer-goods transaction, if the extent to which a security interest is a
purchase-money security interest depends on the application of a payment to a particular obligation, the
payment must be applied in 1 of the following, as applicable:
(a) In accordance with any reasonable method of application to which the parties agree.
(b) In the absence of the parties' agreement to a reasonable method, in accordance with any intention of the
obligor manifested at or before the time of payment.
(c) In the absence of an agreement to a reasonable method and a timely manifestation of the obligor's
intention, in the following order:
(i) To obligations that are not secured.
(ii) If more than 1 obligation is secured, to obligations secured by purchase-money security interests in the
order in which those obligations were incurred.
(6) In a transaction other than a consumer-goods transaction, a purchase-money security interest does not
lose its status as such, even if the purchase-money collateral also secures an obligation that is not a
purchase-money obligation, collateral that is not purchase-money collateral also secures the purchase-money
obligation, or the purchase-money obligation has been renewed, refinanced, consolidated, or restructured.
(7) In a transaction other than a consumer-goods transaction, a secured party claiming a purchase-money
security interest has the burden of establishing the extent to which the security interest is a purchase-money
security interest.
(8) The limitation of the rules in subsections (5), (6), and (7) to transactions other than consumer-goods
transactions is intended to leave to the court the determination of the proper rules in consumer-goods
transactions. The court may not infer from that limitation the nature of the proper rule in consumer-goods
transactions and may continue to apply established approaches.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1964, Act 250, Eff. Aug. 28, 1964;⎯Am. 1978, Act 369, Eff. Jan. 1, 1979;⎯Am.
1987, Act 16, Imd. Eff. Apr. 24, 1987;⎯Am. 1998, Act 278, Imd. Eff. July 27, 1998;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999;⎯Am.
2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9104 Control of deposit account.
Sec. 9104. (1) A secured party has control of a deposit account if 1 or more of the following apply:
(a) The secured party is the bank with which the deposit account is maintained.
(b) The debtor, secured party, and bank have agreed in an authenticated record that the bank will comply
with instructions originated by the secured party directing disposition of the funds in the deposit account
without further consent by the debtor.
(c) The secured party becomes the bank's customer with respect to the deposit account.
(2) A secured party that has satisfied subsection (1) has control, even if the debtor retains the right to direct
the disposition of funds from the deposit account.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1978, Act 369, Eff. Jan. 1, 1979;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999;⎯
Am. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9105 Control of electronic chattel paper.
Sec. 9105. (1) A secured party has control of electronic chattel paper if a system employed for evidencing
the transfer of interests in the chattel paper reliably establishes the secured party as the person to which the
chattel paper was assigned.
(2) A system satisfies subsection (1) if the record or records comprising the chattel paper are created,
stored, and assigned in such a manner that all of the following apply:
(a) A single authoritative copy of the record or records exists which is unique, identifiable, and, except as
otherwise provided in subdivisions (d), (e), and (f), unalterable.
(b) The authoritative copy identifies the secured party as the assignee of the record or records.
(c) The authoritative copy is communicated to and maintained by the secured party or its designated
custodian.
(d) Copies or amendments that add or change an identified assignee of the authoritative copy can be made
only with the consent of the secured party.
(e) Each copy of the authoritative copy and any copy of a copy is readily identifiable as a copy that is not
the authoritative copy.
(f) Any amendment of the authoritative copy is readily identifiable as authorized or unauthorized.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 153 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1978, Act 369, Eff. Jan. 1, 1979;⎯Am. 1987, Act 16, Imd. Eff. Apr. 24, 1987;⎯
Am. 1988, Act 130, Eff. Sept. 1, 1988;⎯Am. 1998, Act 278, Imd. Eff. July 27, 1998;⎯Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999;⎯Am.
2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001;⎯Am. 2012, Act 88, Eff. July 1, 2013.
440.9106 Control of investment property.
Sec. 9106. (1) A person has control of a certificated security, uncertificated security, or security
entitlement as provided in section 8106.
(2) A secured party has control of a commodity contract if either of the following is met:
(a) The secured party is the commodity intermediary with which the commodity contract is carried.
(b) The commodity customer, secured party, and commodity intermediary have agreed that the commodity
intermediary will apply any value distributed on account of the commodity contract as directed by the secured
party without further consent by the commodity customer.
(3) A secured party having control of all security entitlements or commodity contracts carried in a
securities account or commodity account has control over the securities account or commodity account.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 1978, Act 369, Eff. Jan. 1, 1979;⎯Am. 1998, Act 278, Imd. Eff. July 27, 1998;⎯
Am. 1998, Act 488, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999;⎯Am. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9107 Control of letter-of-credit right.
Sec. 9107. A secured party has control of a letter-of-credit right to the extent of any right to payment or
performance by the issuer or any nominated person if the issuer or nominated person has consented to an
assignment of proceeds of the letter of credit under section 5114(3) or otherwise applicable law or practice.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9108 Sufficiency of description.
Sec. 9108. (1) Except as otherwise provided in subsections (3), (4), and (5), a description of personal or
real property is sufficient, whether or not it is specific, if it reasonably identifies what is described.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (4), a description of collateral reasonably identifies the
collateral if it identifies the collateral by 1 or more of the following:
(a) Specific listing.
(b) Category.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (5), a type of collateral defined in the uniform commercial
code.
(d) Quantity.
(e) Computational or allocational formula or procedure.
(f) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (3), any other method, if the identity of the collateral is
objectively determinable.
(3) A description of collateral as “all the debtor's assets” or “all the debtor's personal property” or using
words of similar import does not reasonably identify the collateral.
(4) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (5), a description of a security entitlement, securities
account, or commodity account is sufficient if it describes 1 or more of the following:
(a) The collateral by the term security entitlement, securities account, or commodity account, or as
investment property.
(b) The underlying financial asset or commodity contract.
(5) A description only by type of collateral defined in the uniform commercial code is an insufficient
description of either of the following:
(a) A commercial tort claim.
(b) In a consumer transaction, consumer goods, a security entitlement, a securities account, or a
commodity account.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
SUBPART 2.

APPLICABILITY OF ARTICLE

440.9109 Scope.
Sec. 9109. (1) Except as otherwise provided in subsections (3) and (4), this article applies to all of the
following:
(a) A transaction, regardless of its form, that creates a security interest in personal property or fixtures by
contract.
(b) An agricultural lien.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 154 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
(c) A sale of accounts, chattel paper, payment intangibles, or promissory notes.
(d) A consignment.
(e) A security interest arising under section 2401, 2505, 2711(3), or 2A508(5), as provided in section 9110.
(f) A security interest arising under section 4210 or 5118.
(2) The application of this article to a security interest in a secured obligation is not affected by the fact that
the obligation is itself secured by a transaction or interest to which this article does not apply.
(3) This article does not apply to the extent that 1 or more of the following apply:
(a) A statute, regulation, or treaty of the United States preempts this article.
(b) Another statute of this state expressly governs the creation, perfection, priority, or enforcement of a
security interest created by this state or a governmental unit of this state.
(c) A statute of another state, a foreign country, or a governmental unit of another state or foreign country,
other than a statute generally applicable to security interests, expressly governs creation, perfection, priority,
or enforcement of a security interest created by that state, country, or governmental unit.
(d) The rights of a transferee beneficiary or nominated person under a letter of credit are independent and
superior under section 5114.
(4) This article does not apply to any of the following:
(a) A landlord's lien, other than an agricultural lien.
(b) A lien, other than an agricultural lien, given by statute or other rule of law for services or materials, but
section 9333 applies with respect to priority of the lien.
(c) An assignment of a claim for wages, salary, or other compensation of an employee.
(d) A sale of accounts, chattel paper, payment intangibles, or promissory notes as part of a sale of the
business out of which they arose.
(e) An assignment of accounts, chattel paper, payment intangibles, or promissory notes that is for the
purpose of collection only.
(f) An assignment of a right to payment under a contract to an assignee that is also obligated to perform
under the contract.
(g) An assignment of a single account, payment intangible, or promissory note to an assignee in full or
partial satisfaction of a preexisting indebtedness.
(h) A transfer of an interest in or an assignment of a claim under a policy of insurance, other than an
assignment by or to a health-care provider of a health-care-insurance receivable and any subsequent
assignment of the right to payment, but sections 9315 and 9322 apply with respect to proceeds and priorities
in proceeds.
(i) An assignment of a right represented by a judgment, other than a judgment taken on a right to payment
that was collateral.
(j) A right of recoupment of set-off, but section 9340 applies with respect to the effectiveness of rights of
recoupment or set-off against deposit accounts and section 9404 applies with respect to defenses or claims of
an account debtor.
(k) The creation or transfer of an interest in or lien on real property, including a lease or rents thereunder,
except to the extent that provision is made for 1 or more of the following:
(i) Liens on real property in sections 9203 and 9308.
(ii) Fixtures in section 9334.
(iii) Fixture filings in sections 9501, 9502, 9512, 9516, and 9519.
(iv) Security agreements covering personal and real property in section 9604.
(l) The creation of or transfer of an interest in or lien on a land contract mortgage governed by sections 6
through 11 of 1879 PA 237, MCL 565.356 to 565.361.
(m) A transfer by a governmental unit or governmental subdivision or agency.
(n) An assignment of a claim arising in tort, other than a commercial tort claim, but sections 9315 and
9322 apply with respect to proceeds and priorities in proceeds.
(o) An assignment of a deposit account in a consumer transaction, but sections 9315 and 9322 apply with
respect to proceeds and priorities in proceeds.
History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
440.9110 Security interests arising under article 2 or 2A.
Sec. 9110. A security interest arising under section 2401, 2505, 2711(3), or 2A508(5) is subject to this
article. However, until the debtor obtains possession of the goods, all of the following apply:
(a) The security interest is enforceable, even if section 9203(2)(c) has not been satisfied.
(b) Filing is not required to perfect the security interest.
(c) The rights of the secured party after default by the debtor are governed by article 2 or 2A.
Rendered Wednesday, December 27, 2017 Page 155 Michigan Compiled Laws Complete Through PA 182 of 2017
© Legislative Council, State of Michigan Courtesy of www.legislature.mi.gov
(d) The security interest has priority over a conflicting security interest created by the debtor.

History: 1962, Act 174, Eff. Jan. 1, 1964;⎯Am. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.

440.9111 Repealed. 1998, Act 489, Imd. Eff. Jan. 4, 1999.
Compiler's note: The repealed section pertained to creation of security interest as bulk transfer.
440.9112-440.9116 Repealed. 2000, Act 348, Eff. July 1, 2001.
Compiler's note: The repealed sections pertained to collateral not owned by debtor, security interests arising under article on sales,
consignment, attachment or perfection, and buyer obligations.
PART 2

EFFECTIVENESS OF SECURITY AGREEMENT; ATTACHMENT OF SECURITY INTEREST; RIGHTS

OF PARTIES TO SECURITY AGREEMENT

SUBPART 1.

EFFECTIVENESS AND ATTACHMENT